LIBERTY FINANCIAL SAYS IT AGREES TO BE ACQUIRED BY
EQUIMARK FOR 48 DLRS PER SHARE




MEDIA GENERAL SAYS GIANT GROUP, AFFILIATES HAVE 9.8 PCT OF CLASS A COMMON STOCK




ICAHN DROPS BID FOR TWA <TWA>
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
Trans World Airlines Inc said chairman Carl C. Icahn has withdrawn his
proposal to acquire the TWA shares he does not already own due to the
deterioration in market conditions. Under the proposal Icahn would
have paid for each TWA share 20 dlrs in cash and 25 dlrs face amount
of 12 pct subordinated debentures due 2007. TWA said Icahn reserves
the right to make a subsequent proposal at some future date on the
same terms or different terms. Reuter 

EQUITICORP HOLDING IN GUINNESS REACHES 59.93 PCT
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
Equiticorp Holdings Ltd <EQUW.WE> now owns or has received acceptances
representing 59.93 pct of the issued ordinary share capital of
Guinness Peat Group Plc <GNSP.L>, Equiticorp said in a statement.
Equiticorp's offer for Guinness Peat became unconditional on October
3, when it had 50.6 pct, and closed on October 17. REUTER 

ALLEGHENY <AI> SELLS THREE INDUSTRIAL UNITS
    PITTSBURGH, June 18 - 
Allegheny International Inc said it sold three of its industrial units
which served the railroad industry to <Chemetron Railway Products
Inc>, a senior management group of Allegheny. Terms of the transaction
were not disclosed. Included in the sale were Chemetron Railway
Products, True Temper Railway Appliances Inc and Allegheny Axle Co,
the company said. The three units include 12 plants throughout the
U.S., the company said. Reuter 

PHARMACONTROL <PHAR.O> ACQUIRES REVCO UNIT
    ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., June 1 - 
PharmaControl Corp said it acquired Private Formulations Inc from
<Revco D.S. Inc> for six mln dlrs in cash, a 13,550,000 dlr promissory
note and warrants to buy 200,000 PharmaControl common shares.
PharmaControl said the purchase price was financed, along with one mln
dlrs in working capital, through secured institutional financing. The
company said betweenm 11,550,000 dlrs and 12,550,000 dlrs f the
principal amount of the Revco note, plus accrued interest, is payable
June 30. The balance is payable over three years. PharmaControl said
it expects to make the payment due to Revco from proceeds of a
proposed offering of units consisting of convertible subordinated
debenturers and common stock currently on file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Upon closing of the public offering, the company
said, it expects the secured institutional financing to increase to a
total of 12 mln dlrs. Private Formulations is primarily engaged in the
manufacture and distribution of vitamins and private label over-the-
counter pharmaceutical products. Reuter 

STANADYNE <STNA.O> PURCHASES AMBAC STAKE
    WINDSOR, Conn., Oct 20 - 
Stanadyne Inc said it has acquired a substnatial majority of AMBAC
S.p.A.'s outstanding stock from <AIL Corp>, the successor to United
Technologies Corp's <UTX> Diesel Systems Division for undisclosed
terms. In addition to purchase a majority of the Brescia, Italy, based
company, Stanadyne said, it acquired a minority interest in AMBAC's
U.S. operation headquartered in Columbia, S.C. Reuter 

IC INDUSTRIES SAYS IT WILL CONSIDER POSSIBLE SALE OF ITS AEROSPACE BUSINESS




GROUP RAISES SCANDINAVIA FUND <SCF> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
A shareholder group consisting of foreign investment firms and
investors said it raised its stake in Scandinavia Fund Inc to
2,607,900 shares, or 40.0 pct of the total outstanding from 2,309,700
shares, or 35.4 pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the group also said it is considering an informal offer
made by Scandinavia Fund President Bjorn Carlson on March 31 which
would grant it representation on the company's board. The group
includes VBI Corp, a Turks and Caicos Islands investment firm, and
Ingemar Rydin Industritillbehor AB, a Swedish investment firm, and
Erik Martin Vik, a Norwegian investor, and Vik's son, Alexander. The
group said VBI and the elder Vik bought a combined 298,200 Scandinavia
Fund common shares since March 13 at prices ranging from 9.500 to
10.000 dlrs a share. Reuter 

ENERGAS <EGAS.O> TO BUY TEXAS AMERICAN <TAE>UNIT
    DALLAS, June 29 - 
Energas Co said it has agreed in principle to purchase Western
Kentucky Gas Co from Texas American Energy Corp for 61.5 mln dlrs in
cash plus assumptrion of certain liabilities. Western Kentucky is a
gas distribution company which serves about 143,000 customers in 108
towns and communities in Kentucky. Reuter 

KURZ-KASCH UPS STAKE IN COMPONENT TECH <CTEC>
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
Kurz-Kasch Inc, a Dayton thermoset molding maker, told the Securities
and Exchange Commission it had increased its holdings in Component
Technology Corp by two pct, to 9.3 pct. It said it bought the 39,000
shares of stock at 5.30-6.875 dlrs a share for investment purposes.
Reuter 

MERRILL TO GET 30 MLN DLR FEE IN BORG <BOR> DEAL
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
Merrill Lynch and Co Inc <MER> subsidiary seeking to take over of
Borg-Warner Corp said it could realize a 30 mln dlr fee for its
efforts, whether or not the deal, which it values at 4.7 billion dlrs,
succeeds. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Merrill Lynch Capital Partners Inc said it would receive a 30 mln dlr
fee from the surviving company for acting as dealer manager of the
merger after the Borg-Warner deal is completed. But it said it could
also receive a break-up fee of 30 mln dlrs if the deal fails for
reasons, which include another party holding more than 40 pct of its
stock or tendering for 50 pct. The 30 mln dlr fee is among the highest
set down in any tender offer agreement, either in compensation for
dealer manager services or for break-up of the deal. Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets, backed by a group of investors it organized, has
launched a 48.50 dlr a share tender offer for Borg-Warner for 90 pct
of its stock. The company's board has approved the plan, which was
intended to thwart an unsolicited offer from GAF Corp. Borg-Warner
also agreed to redeem all outstanding Series A preferred shares and to
pay off on all options at a 48.50 dlr a share exercise price before
the merger is effective, it said. Merrill Lynch said its
representatives discussed a possible leveraged buyout with Borg-Warner
as early as last December. At that time, Merrill Lynch told the
company it would consider a 43 dlr a share tender offer in cash and
securities, if the Borg-Warner board approved, it said. On Feb 24, it
said it was told the company had decided against a buyout. But talks
were revived after GAF launched its 46 dlr a share proposal on March
31, Merrill Lynch said. Unlike its earlier proposal, Merrill Lynch
said Borg-Warner management was asked not to take part in the new deal
and it was conditioned upon payment of the fees. In addition to its
fees, Merrill Lynch said it will also get up to 17 mln dlrs from Borg-
Warner to cover its expenses in the tender offer. Merrill Lynch said
it would continue operating Borg-Warner as a subsidiary with its
current officers keeping their positions. But for flexibility
purposes, Merrill Lynch said it is considering redistributing Borg-
Warner's assets to a number of subsdiaries of an entity it created to
carry out the merger. All in all Merrill Lynch estimated that there
would be 130 mln dlrs in fees and expenses connected with the deal.
Another 250 mln dlrs will be needed to repay certain debt of Borg-
Warner, Merrill Lynch said. To finance the deal, Merrill Lynch said it
expects to borrow 3.5 billion dlrs from a group of banks and sell 100
mln dlrs of common stock of the new company, sell 100 mln dlrs of non-
voting preferred stock of the new company to Merrill Lynch and Co,
sell up to 650 mln dlrs of subordinated notes to Merrill Lynch and Co
and sell to the public 204 mln dlrs of subordinated discount
debentures. GAF has raised its offer to 48 dlrs a share cash. Reuter 

FRENCH STATE SELL-OFFS RAISE 52 BILLION FRANCS
    PARIS, June 17 - 
The French government's privatisation program, which began late last
year, has earned the French State about 52 billion francs to date, the
Finance Ministry said. Sources close to Finance Minister Edouard
Balladur said the revenues raised from the privatisation program would
be used in priority to pay off public debt, which stood at 398.2
billion at the end of 1986. The Ministry said in a communique that the
returns included banking group Societe Generale <SGEN.PA>, which began
its two-week public flotation last Monday. The government has carried
out eight flotations, as well as the private sale of telephone group
<Cie Generale de Constructions Telephoniques> (CGCT) since its
denationalisation scheme began last December with the sell-off of
glass makers Saint-Gobain <SGEP.PA>, it added. The government has
pledged to privatise 66 state-owned industrial, banking and insurance
companies by 1991. Other companies to be sold to the private sector in
the near future are television network TF-1 later this month and
banking group Cie Financiere de Suez <FSPP.PA> in the autumn. The
ministry said TF-1's forthcoming sell-off meant that a third of the
government's programme would have been completed in less than nine
months. Balladur on Sunday rejected press and opposition charges that
the share prices for privatised companies had been pitched too low. He
said that the average premium of shares trading on the Bourse was
between 15 and 30 pct over their offer price. This compared with
premiums of between 60 and 80 pct on similar share flotations in
Britain. REUTER 

JWT GROUP <JWT> GRANTS GOLDEN PARACHUTES
    WASHINGTON, June 18 - 
JWT Group Inc disclosed in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission that it awarded so-called "golden parachutes" to 26 top
officers. The company said it granted the special bonuses, which take
effect only if an executive is fired within two years of a successful
takeover, on June 8. It granted 25 of the officials a severance
payment of just under three times their annual compensation if they
are fired after a takeover. For chairman Don Johnston, the payment was
limited to twice his annual compensation. JWT approved additional
lump-sum payments of one year's compensation to an unspecified number
of other highly paid company officials. The company also altered its
employee retirement and stock incentive plans, to assure continued
protection and benefits for employees in the event of a hostile
takeover. The company did not disclose the cost of the changes made in
the severance, retirement or stock plans. Reuter 

DOTRONIX INC <DOTX.O> TO BUY <VIDEO MONITORS>
    NEW BRIGHTON, Minn., April 13 - 
Dotronix Inc said it agreed in principle to buy Video Monitors Inc, a
privately-held company. In payment for the acquisition, Dotronix will
issue 312,500 unregistered shares of its common stock, notes worth 1.8
mln dlrs payable over three years, and about 70,000 dlrs in cash.
Dotronix said Video Monitors' sales for the fiscal year ended April
30, 1986, were 7.6 mln dlrs. Dotronix had income of 659,663 dlrs on
sales of 7.1 mln dlrs for the six months ended Dec. 31, 1986, as
previously reported. Reuter 

BANK OF CHINA BUYS SHARE IN LUXEMBOURG COMPANY
    PEKING, April 17 - 
State-owned Bank of China has bought a three to five pct share of BAII
Holding SA, a financial institution registered in Luxembourg, the
China Daily Business Weekly said. It said the institution is 50 pct
owned by Arab interests and has set up a wholly owned commercial
banking branch in Hong Kong but gave no more details. REUTER 

CENTEL <CNT> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    CHICAGO, April 9 - 
Centel Corp said it completed the acquisition of Welbac Cable
Television Corp, which serves more than 2,500 cable television
subscribers in east central Michigan. Terms were not disclosed. With
the addition of Welbac customers, Centel Cable Television Co of
Michigan serves more than 83,000 customers. Overall, Centel has nearly
495,000 customers in seven states. Reuter 

ALLIED-SIGNAL <ALD> SELLS TO SCHLUMBERGER <SLB>
    MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., June 29 - 
Allied-Signal Inc and Schlumberger Ltd jointly announced that
Schlumberger had acquired Allied-Signal's Neptune International unit.
Terms weren't disclosed. Atlanta, Ga.-based Neptune, which makes water
meters and flow measurement equipment, had sales last year of 80 mln
dlrs. Reuter 

Willis Faber says it making agreed 302.6 mln stg bid for
Stewart Wrightson




VERNITRON <VRN> SETS NEW RECORD DATE
    DEER PARK, N.Y., June 29 - 
Vernitron Corp said it has set a new record date of July 10 for
shareholders entitled to vote on the proposed merger of Vernitron with
<SB Holding Corp>. The original record date was May 26. Vernitron said
that it currently expects the special shareholder meeting concerning
the merger will be held in August. Following its tender offer in
November 1986, SB Holding holds 55.2 pct of Vernitron, a maker of
electromechanical components and related products and services. Reuter


CAROLCO PICTURES <CRC>, ORBIS IN AGREEMENT
    LOS ANGELES, June 29 - 
Carolco Pictures Inc said it signed a letter of intent to exchange 2.2
mln of its shares for all Orbis Communications Inc stock within the
next 60 days. It said the Carolco shares used in the exchange are
valued at 7.00 dlrs a share or a total value of 15.4 mln dlrs and will
be adjusted based on the price of Carolco shares on the closing date.
It said Orbis management will remain in place for at least three
years. Reuter 

SOCIETY/SAVINGS <SOCS.O> FORMS HOLDING COMPANY
    HARTFORD, Conn., June 1 - 
Society for Savings said it has completed a merger into newly formed
holding company Society for Savings Bancorp Inc on a share-for-share
basis. Reuter 

FEDERAL RESOURCES <FDRC.O> ACQUIRES RETAILER
    NEW YORK, June 29 - 
Federal Resources Corp said it has acquired the capital stock and
related real estate assets of <New Generation Inc>, a regional
consumer electronics specialty retailer. Terms of the acquisition were
not disclosed. New Generation has annual sales volume of about 30 mln
dlrs, Federal Resources said. Federal Resources said it will search
for additional acquisitions including, but not limited to, specialty
retailers. Reuter 

GROUP MAY SUPPORT CARDIS CORP <CDS> BUYOUT
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
A group of companies controlled by Brookehill Partners Inc told
government authorities it may support a buyout of Cardis Corp as a way
to maximize the value of the company's stock. In a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the group disclosed that it
currently holds a 5.5 pct stake in Cardis common stock, and said it
"would likely support" an acquisition of the company as a whole or in
parts by another party, terming such a move "the most likely means for
the company's shareholders to maximize the value of their investment."
Although the group characterized its Cardis stock holdings as
principally for investment, it said it intends to contact third
parties who might be interested in an acquisition of Cardis, a Los
Angeles-based auto parts distributor. The group added its has already
had "some contacts" with others concerning the company, but said no
understandings have been reached. "The (Cardis) common shares continue
to offer opportunity for price appreciation on the basis of the
company's asset value and earnings momentum," the Brookehill group
told the SEC. The group, which currently holds 318,900 Cardis common
shares, consists of New York-based Brookehill Partners and its two
subsidiaries, Brookehill Equities Inc, a brokerage, and Moore,
Grossman and deRose Inc, an investment advisor. Walter Grossmman, S.
Edward Moore and Robert deRose, all of New York, each own one-third
interests in Brookehill Partners. Since April 27, members of the
Brookehill group made net purchases of 6,000 Cardis common shares at
approximately 4 dlrs a share. The group told the SEC it may continue
to purchase additional Cardis stock, but also reserved the right to
sell its shares in the company. Reuter 

NETI TECHNOLOGIES <NETFC.O> SELLS SUBSIDIARY
    VANCOUVER, June 2 - 
Neti Technologies Inc said it has sold for over four mln dlrs U.S. in
cash, notes and the assumption of liabilities its Huron Leasing Inc
subsidiary to a group of investors headed by a former Huron executive.
The company said the transaction will yield about two mln dlrs in
cash, Huron sells, leases and services computer hardware. The
transaction is subject to approval by the Montreal and Vancouver Stock
Exchange and the arrangement of financing by June 15. Reuter 

GROUP LIFTS AIRLEASE <FLY> STAKE TO 15.1 PCT
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
A group of firms led by PS Group Inc <PSG> said it increased its stake
in Airlease Ltd depositary units representing limited partners
interest to 700,400 units, or 15.1 pct of the total outstanding, from
a previous figure of approximately 651,000 units, or 14 pct. In a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said it
bought 49,400 Airlease units between July 16 andf October 15 at 17.23
dlrs to 17.60 dlrs a share. No reason was given for the recent
purchases. Reuter 

CAMPEAU <CMP.T> UNIT TO SELL GARFINCKEL'S
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Campeau Corp said its Allied Stores Corp entered into a definitive
agreement to sell its Garfinckel's division to <Raleigh Stories Corp>
for 95 mln dlrs. The transaction is expected to close in July, the
company said. Garfinckel's net sales for fiscal 1986 were 111.9 mln
dlrs, the company said. Campeau said it expects to sell its remaining
Allied divisions in the near future. Campeau announced its first
agreement to sell an Allied unit in April, the company said. Reuter 

CYCLOPS <CYL> HOLDERS APPROVE DIXONS MERGER
    NEW YORK, June 29 - 
Dixons Group Plc said shareholders at a special meeting of Cyclops
Corp approved the previously announced merger of Cyclops with Dixons.
Under the terms of the merger, Dixons said the remaining public
Cyclops shareholders are to receive 95 dlrs a share. Dixons also said
the previously announced sale of Cyclops steel and nonresidential
construction businesses to a former Alleghany Corp <Y> subsidiary is
expected to be completed June 30. After the sale, Cyclops will retain
its specialty retailing business and change its name to Silo Inc, said
Dixons. Reuter 

VR <VRBB.O> CLOSES STOCK SALE TO VR ACQUISITION
    BOSTON, Mass., June 19 - 
VR Business Brokers Inc said it closed the sale of a controlling
interest in its comon and preferred stock to VR Acquisition Corp, a
Delaware corporation controlled by an investment group led by C. Robin
Relph of London. Under the agreement dated April 28, VR Business
agreed to sell 5,008,120 shares of common stock and 11,846 shares of
10 pct cumulative stock. VR Business said it issued 3,964,000 shares
of common stock and 11,846 shares of preferred stock, with the
remaining shares of common to be listed within the next week to 10
days. Reuter 

LADD <LADD.O> UNIT COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    HICKORY, N.C, June 1 - 
Ladd Furniture Inc's Clayton-Marcus Furniture subsidiary said it
completed the previously announced purchase of privately-held Colony
House Furniture Inc for an undisclosed amount of cash and notes.
Reuter 

SOUTHLAND <SLC> TARGETED IN SEC INVESTIGATION
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
Southland Corp said it was told the Securities and Exchange Commission
ordered a private investigation into Southland stock trading and
statements made by the company this year. "Southland has been advised
that the Commission has issued a private order of investigation
concerning the trading of Southland stock during various times in 1987
and the issuance of various public statements by Southland," Southland
said in a proxy statement to shareholders. Southland did not elaborate
on the SEC order of investigation, and company officials could not be
reached for comment late Tuesday. The SEC has a long-standing policy
against confirming or denying the existence of investigations. The
proxy statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, is
required for a November 5 shareholders meeting called to approve the
previously announced acquisition of Southland by a company controlled
by Southland chairman John Thompson and members of his family. Earlier
this year, a group led by Thompson acquired majority ownership of
Southland through a 77 dlrs a share tender offer for 31.5 mln shares
of Southland common stock. If the merger is approved, common stock
still outstanding will be converted into the right to receive 61.32
dlrs a share in cash plus a fraction of a share of preferred stock.
Reuter 

PAY N' PAK <PNP> GETS TWO OFFERS FOR COMPANY
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Pay N' Pak Stores Inc said it received two proposals in response to
its previously announced solicitation of potential buyers for the
company. The company said it is evaluating the proposals from Paul
Bilzerian and from a third party which is active in the leveraged
buyout field but which Pay N' Pak declined to identify. It said the
Bilzerian proposal calls for shareholders to receive on a blended
basis 16.67 dlrs in cash and 3.30 dlrs in liquidation value of
cumulative exchangeable redeemable preferred stock for each common
share. Pay N' Pak said the second proposal is structured as a merger
in which each holder would receive a combination of 17.50 dlrs in cash
and 2.50 dlrs in liquidation value of 13-1/2 pct cumulative preferred.
The company said the dividend on the preferred offered by Bilzerian
would be set so that in the opinion his financial advisor and the
company's financial advisor the preferred would trade in the public
market at its liquidation value. Dividends on the preferred could be
paid at the option of the surviving corporation in cash or additional
shares of preferred for the first five years, it added.. Pay N' Pak
said Bilzerian's proposal is subject to a physical inventory of
merchandise at June 30. Bilzerian did not provide details with respect
to financing of his proposal, which is not subject to a financing
condition. The company said dividends on the preferred being offered
in the second proposal would be paid in additional preferred in the
first three years and the preferred would be redeemed in years 12 and
13. It said the second offer is contingent on the arrangement of
financing, adding the party making the offer is confident of its
ability to obtain the balance of the financing. Pay N' Pak said the
second proposal is conditioned upon a satisfactory agreement with the
company's management regarding its equity participation in the new
company. The second party anticipates executing a letter of intent
when it delivers its financing commitment to the Pay N' Pak board that
would incorporate an expense reinbursement and option arrangement, the
company said. Reuter 

HOLLINGER <HLG.TO> COMPLETES UNIMEDIA TAKEOVER
    TORONTO, June 18 - 
Hollinger Inc said it completed the previously reported acquisition of
privately held Unimedia Inc, the owner of three French language daily
newspapers and four printing plants in Ontario and Quebec. The
company, which owns 58 pct of (Daily Telegraph Plc) said it named
former Carling O'Keefe Ltd chief executive Pierre Des Marais as chief
executive of La Societe Media Quebec, the unit acquiring Unimedia. It
said his appointment is effective July 2. Reuter 

RAVEN INDUSTRIES <RAV> BUYS TRUCK BODY BUSINESS
    SIOUX FALLS, S.D., June 1 - 
Raven Industries Inc said it purchased the utility truck body business
of (Astoria Fibra-Steel, Inc) for cash. Details of the transaction
were not disclosed. The Astoria product line, which has annual sales
of about 2.5 mln dlrs, will be manufactured and sold by Raven's newly
formed subsidiary, Astoria Industries Inc, Raven said. Its Glasstite
Inc subsidiary also manufactures and sells utility truck bodies.
Reuter 

CAMPEAU SAYS IT IS NOT PART OF SEC PROCEEDING
    NEW YORK, June 29 - 
<Campeau Corp> said it is not involved in the Securities and Exchange
Commission's administrative proceeding against Allied Stores Corp,
which Campeau acquired at the end of last year. In a statement, the
company said, "The SEC action involves events that occurred prior to
Campeau's acquisition of Allied relating to the alleged failure of
Allied to make certain disclosures. Consequently, Campeau is not
subject to the procedings." Reuter 

PHOENIX FINANCIAL <PHFC> BUYS DATA ACCESS STAKE
    BLACKWOOD, N.J., April 9 - 
Data Access Systems Inc said chairman David Cohen has sold 1,800,000
common shares to Phoenix Financial corp for undisclosed terms and
resigned as chairman and chief executive officer. The company said
Phoenix Financial now has a 27 pct interest in Data Access and
effective control. Data Access said Phoenix chairman Martin S.
Ackerman has been named chairman of Data Access as well and two other
Phoenix representatives have been named to the Data Access board. It
said four directors other than Cohen have resigned from the board.
Reuter 

FORSTMANN LITTLE AND CO SAID IT PLANS TO SELL SYBRON CORP UNIT




ROCHESTER <RTC> ACQUIRES <CANTON TELEPHONE CO>
    ROCHESTER, N.Y., June 29 - 
Rochester Telephone Corp said it completed the acquisition of Canton
Telephone Co and is now operating the company. Terms of the
acquisition were not disclosed. Canton Telephone serves about 2,900
access lines in northwestern Pennsylvania and had 1986 operating
revenues of about 1,300,000 dlrs, Rochester Telephone said. Reuter 

COMPUTER ASSOCIATES TO ACQUIRE UCCEL CORP FOR ABOUT 800 MLN DLRS




U.K. TREASURY CONFIRMS BP SALE TO GO AHEAD
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
The British Treasury confirmed that the sale of British Petroleum Co
Plc will go ahead as planned, despite Monday's stock market crash
which forced BP below the 330p a share set for the 7.2 billion stg
issue. "The government are not considering terminating the BP offer.
The offer has been fully underwritten," a Treasury spokesman said. The
issue, which remains open until October 28, was fully underwritten
last week when the issue price was set. BP shares closed down 33p at
317p as the FT-SE 100 share index crashed a record 249.6 points, more
than 10 pct. Reuter 

INSURANCE FIRM AS PIEZO <PEPI.O> PREFERRED STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
Corporate Life Insurance Co, a West Chester, Pa., insurance firm, told
the Securities and Exchange Commission it has acquired 44,600 shares
of preferred stock in Piezo Electric Products Inc, or 10.8 pct of the
total. Corporate insurance said it bought the cumulative convertible
preferred stock stake for 199,690 dlrs for investment purposes. Reuter


STAD ROTTERDAM TAKES STAKE IN SWISS-OWNED INSURER
    ROTTERDAM, June 2 - 
Dutch insurer Stad Rotterdam Anno 1720 N.V. <ASRN.AS> said from July 1
it will own 20 pct of the shares of <Europeesche Verzekering
Maatschappij N.V.>, a fully-owned unit of Swiss insurer <Union
Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft>. Stad Rotterdam chairman Lucas van
Leeuwen told Reuters it may raise its stake to a majority interest if
the two companies are found to be sufficiently compatible. Van Leeuwen
said that due partly to the fact Europeesche made losses in 1985 and
1986, the 20 pct stake was obtained at below the shares' intrinsic
value. He gave no precise sum. The Europeesche, which specialises in
travel and recreation insurance, had a premium income of 150 mln
guilders in 1986. Stad Rotterdam's premium income in 1986 was 1.17
billion guilders, making it the fifth largest Dutch insurer.
Europeesche made a loss of nine mln guilders in 1985, which narrowed
to 4.5 mln guilders in 1986, van Leeuwen said. He said the company was
on course for independent recovery and was expected to reduce its
losses further in 1987. REUTER 

UAL <UAL> MAY RESPOND TO PILOTS TODAY
    New York, April 8 - 
UAL Inc may have a response this afternoon to the pilots union
proposal to buy its United Airlines unit, a UAL spokesman said.
"Obviously, we have a lot of movement in our stock, and we need to get
a clarification out," the spokesman said, adding that there was a
"50-50" chance a statement would be released today. The pilots earlier
this week offered to buy the airline for 2.3 billion dlrs, and assume
2.2 billion dlrs of existing debt. Takeover speculation has driven
UAL's stock for several weeks. UAL last month said New York Real
estate developer Donald Trump held a position in its stock, and that
he also held discussions with its chairman. The developer indicated in
those talks that he took the position as an investment, but he
revealed no other plans. Today, rumors circulated that Coniston
Partners were buying UAL stock. UAL jumped five to 70-3/4 on volume of
more than 3.2 mln shares. "United has got to consider this proposal. I
think the pilot's proposal is realistic. I don't exptect them to take
it, but it could put some interesting options in front of UAL
management," said Timothy Pettee, Bear Stearns and co analyst.
Analysts have said UAL made itself vulnerable to attack when it
diversified away from its core airline. It added Hertz rental cars,
Westin and Hilton International hotels in a strategy to become a
travel service company. The strategy left its stock in a slump and its
pilots union concerned that the company was not focussing enough
attention on its airline. UAL has stood firm on its strategy. It is
emphasizing its new focus by changing its name to Allegis, as of May
one. But takeover speculation has escalated, and Wall Street has been
busy calculating break up values well in excess of 100 dlrs per share.
Traders today described the buying in UAL as widespread, indicative to
them that big institutions believe the stock is in play. Market
sources have said that although Trump attracted attention to the
stock, the pilots proposal acted as a catalyst, kicking off a new
round of speculation and perhaps throwing the company into the hands
of another buyer. "The first domino is you have an investor with a
considerable stake. the second domino is the union. That type of
attitude has been a precursor to airline deals in the past," said
Pettee. "What's interesting is the values are there. There's something
for everybody," he said. Reuter 

3M <MMM> ACQUIRES CONTROL DATA <CDA> UNIT
    ST PAUL, Minn., June 2 - 
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing said it acquired a computerized
hospital information systems business from Control Data Corp. Terms
were not disclosed. The business, which has 145 employees and supplies
computers and software for hospital information systems, will be
integrated into 3M's hospital software business. Control Data said the
divestiture was part of its strategy to focus on narrower markets.
Reuter 

UNION <UEL.TO> ENDS PACT TO SELL CANBRA <CBF.TO>
    TORONTO, June 29 - 
Union Enterprises Ltd said its agreement to sell its interest in
Canbra Foods Ltd to Macluan Capital Corp has been terminated. Union
said Macluan failed to make an offer for Union's 72 pct interest in
Canbra before the June 22 deadline. Union said it is no longer bound
by the agreement and is continuing to seek a buyer for the interest.
Reuter 

INTERSTATE BAKERIES <IBC>BUYS MEXICAN FOOD FIRM
    KANSAS CITY, MO., June 29 - 
Interstate Bakeries Corp said its Royal American Foods subsidiary
agreed to buy the assets of Landshire Food Products Inc, a New-Mexico-
based producer of packaged Mexican food products. Terms of the
proposed transaction were not disclosed. Reuter 

KINGSBRIDGE, MASCO SET MERGER
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Kingsbridge Holdings Ltd, said it signed a letter of intent for a
merger with <Masco Sports Inc>. The transaction calls for 230 mln
sahres of Kingsbridge common stock to be issued to shareholders of
Masco. Reuter 

NOVA CORP SAYS IT IS CONSIDERING A TAKEOVER BID FOR DOME
PETROLEUM




CORBY DISTILLERIES <CDL.TO> TO BUY HEUBLEIN UNIT
     MONTREAL, Oct 19 - 
Corby Distilleries Ltd said it has agreed to buy Toronto-based
McGuinness Distillers Ltd from Heublein Inc for about 45 mln dlrs in a
move which Corby expects to add significantly to domestic earnings.
Heublin is a subsidiary of Grand Metropolitan PLC (GMHL.L). Corby said
McGuinness will remain a seperate business unit with a seperate sales
force. McGuinness markets liquers, brandy, and other liquors and has
entered the fast-expanding wine cooler market, Corby said. Corby said
it expects to benefit from McGuinness's succesfull introduction of
schnapps and coolers and its strength in traditional market sectors.
Heublein said the sale does not include McGuinness's Calona Wines Ltd,
a Canadian wine company. Heublein said it is will still be represented
in Canada by Gilbey Canada Inc. reuter Reuter 

LADD FURNITURE <LADF.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    HICKORY, N.C., June 1 - 
LADD Furniture Inc said it has completed the previously-announced
acquisition of privately-held Colony House Furniture Inc for an
undisclosed amount of cash and notes. Reuter 

INVESTMENT FIRMS HAVE 7.7 PCT OF MIDWAY <MDWY.O>
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
Two affiliated investment firms told the Securities and Exchange
Commission they have acquired 593,000 shares of Midway Airlines Inc,
or 7.7 pct of the total outstanding common stock. The firms, Boston-
based FMR Corp and Fidelity International Ltd, a Bermuda-based
investment advisory firm, said they bought the stake "to acquire an
equity interest in the company in pursuit of specified investment
objectives...." The firms said they may increase or decrease their
stake in the company, but have no plans to seek control of the company
or representation on its board. Reuter 

CHASE ACQUIRES 370 MLN DLR REVOLVING CREDIT
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
The Chase Manhattan Bank, a unit of The Chase Manhattan Corp <CMB>,
said it acquired a portfolio of about 190,000 consumer revolving
credit accounts from Atlantic Financial Federal <ATLF.O> valued at 370
mln dlrs. The company said the acquisition makes Chase the second
largest issuer of credit card and other unsecured consumer credit
loans. Outstandings now exceed 5.6 billion dlrs, the company said. The
company said the portfolio, accessed by checks, is similar to Chase's
Advantage Credit product. Reuter 

EMPIRE <EMPA.TO> TO BUY SOBEYS <SYSA.TO> STOCK
    TORONTO, April 13 - 
Empire Co Ltd said it will acquire all shares of Sobeys Stores Ltd it
does not already own under an arrangement approved by directors of
both companies. Holders of Sobeys class A non-voting shares and class
B common shares may elect to receive either 1.6 non-voting class A
Empire shares or one non-voting class A Empire share and one-half of
an eight pct redeemable retractable preferred share. The preferred
share has a par value of 25 dlrs and is retractable at the holder's
option on May 1, 1994. Reuter 

PENGO <PGO> TO SELL SOME WIRELINE OPERATIONS
    FORT WORTH, Texas, June 18 - 
Pengo Industries Inc said it has agreed to sell its Wireline Products
Manufacturing Division in Fort Worth, Texas, Wireline Services
Division operations in several locations and Pengo International Inc
subsidiary to John Wood Group PLC for undisclosed terms. The company
said the Wireline Services operations being sold are in Lafayette,
Houma and Harvey, La., Alvin, Odessa and Longview, Texas, and Moore,
Okla. Pengo said its Kuykenball Slickline operation in Moore and
surplus wireline equipment operations in fort Worth and Cleburne,
Texas, will be sold separately. Reuter 

FIRM HAS 14.8 PCT OF DECISION/CAPITAL FUND<DCF>
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
Gabelli Group Inc said it and two subsidiaries held a total of 295,800
Decision/Capital Fund Inc shares or 14.8 pct of the total outstanding.
It said the shares were held on behalf of investment clients and it
said it had no intention of seeking control of the fund. Gabelli said
its most recent purchases of Decision/Capital Fund stock included
95,800 shares bought April 3-6 on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange.
Gabelli is an investment firm headquartered in New York City. Its
Gabelli and Co subsidiary is a brokerage firm. Reuter 

WELBILT <WELB.O> ACQUIRES FOOD HANDLING SYSTEMS
    NEW HYDE PARK, N.Y., Oct 20 - 
Welbilt Corp said it acquired <Food Handling Systems Inc> of Dallas, a
producer of commercial ovens, conveyers and proofer systems. Terms of
the transaction were not disclosed. Food Handling, which also produces
equipment for the commercial baking industry, was privately owned by
Richard Shumway of Mesa, Ariz., and Vic Ferrara of Dallas, both of
whom will remain with the company. The company has manufacturing
facilities in Dallas and Phoenix. Reuter 

GROUP RAISES COMPUTER MEMORIES <CMIN> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
A shareholder group led by Far Hills, N.J., investor Natalie Koether
said it raised its stake in Computer Memories Inc to 573,300 shares,
or 5.1 pct of the total outstanding, from 542,000 shares, or 4.8 pct.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group,
which includes Sun Equities Corp, an investment firm, said it bought a
net 31,300 Computer Memories common shares since March 31 at prices
ranging from three to 3-5/16 dlrs a share for "capital appreciation."
The group had earlier abandoned plans to seek control of the company
and lowered its stake to less than five pct. Reuter 

GOVERNMENT TO SELL 25 PCT OF AIR NEW ZEALAND
    WELLINGTON, June 18 - 
The New Zealand Government will sell 25 pct of state-owned <Air New
Zealand Ltd> to the public, Civil Aviation minister Richard Prebble
said. Prebble said in a statement the government would appoint an
adviser to help it decide how the shares should be sold, the timing of
any sales and the price. "Clearly there will be a need to gauge the
effect of other proposed share issues so as to enter the market at the
best opportunity," Prebble said. "We are in no particular rush to sell
our shares in Air New Zealand," he said. "Our aim is to maximise the
benefit to the taxpayer. If that means waiting for a while, then so be
it," Prebble said. He said Air New Zealand expects to release its
results soon for the year to March 31 1987. He said he was confident
it would post an excellent profit. Prebble said Air New Zealand was
successful but its ability to prosper in future was hampered by its
wholly-government-owned status. Prebble said access to new sources of
capital would increase its ability to expand and develop. This sale
announcement follows the public float in March of around 13 pct of the
<Bank of New Zealand Ltd>. The government has said it will also float
part of the capital of other state-owned operations, including <DFC
New Zealand Ltd>, formerly Development Finance Corp of New Zealand
Ltd, and Petroleum Corp of New Zealand Ltd. REUTER 

MURPHY OIL SAID IT PROPOSING TO ACQUIRE REMAINING 23 PCT
OF CANADIAN SUBSIDIARY




GEMINA HAS NO COMMENT ON AMBROSIANO REPORT
    Milan, April 9 - 
Holding company <Gemina Spa> said it had no comment on an Italian
press report today that it has acquired a 12 pct stake in <Nuovo Banco
Ambrosiano Spa>. Italian daily La Repubblica said that Gemina paid 205
billion lire for the shareholding from several Italian banks. A Gemina
spokeswoman told Reuters, "We have nothing to say about the report." A
spokeswoman for Milan-based Ambrosiano said, "We have no information
at this time." In February, Ambrosiano chairman Giovanni Bazoli said
foreign and domestic firms have expressed interest in buying stakes in
the bank. REUTER 

PERGAMON HOLDINGS REDUCES BPCC AND HOLLIS STAKES
    LONDON, April 9 - 
<Pergamon Holdings Ltd> and its associate companies said that they had
sold 30 mln ordinary shares in the British Printing and Communication
Corp Plc <BPCL.L> and 10.5 mln in <Hollis Plc> together with other
securities. No total price was given but the company said the proceeds
of the sales would be used to fund Pergamon's expansion programme and
worldwide acquisition stategy. The company said that following these
sales Pergamon's ordinary shareholdings in both BPCC and Hollis
remained above 51 pct. It said it had no intention of further reducing
its holdings in either company. REUTER 

ELDERS PURCHASE OF CANADIAN BREWER APPROVED
    SYDNEY, April 24 - 
Elders IXL Ltd <ELXA.S> said the Canadian government approved its bid
for <Carling O'Keefe Ltd>. Elders earlier announced it was buying 10.9
mln shares, or 50.1 pct of Carling, from the Canadian subsidiary of
Rothmans International Plc <ROT.L> for 18 Canadian dlrs each. Elders
chairman John Elliott said in a statement when the offer for the
ordinary shares closed on April 23, that acceptances representing over
93 pct of outstanding shares had been received. <IXL Holdings> would
proceed to acquire the rest compulsorily, he said. REUTER 

ALLEGIS'<AEG>WESTIN SETS NEWS CONFERENCE ON SALE
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Westin Hotels and Resorts, a subsidiary of Allegis Corp, said it will
hold a press conference on October 21 near San Francisco to discuss
the pending sale of the 61-hotel chain by Allegis. Allegis has said
that it plans to sell Westin buyt has not announced that a deal has
been set. Reuter 

BRITISH PETROLEUM COMPLETES STANDARD OIL MERGER
    LONDON, June 29 - 
British Petroleum Company PlC <BP.L> has completed its merger with
Standard Oil Co of the U.S. <SRD>, raising its holding to 100 pct from
55 pct, BP said in a statement. The acquisition was made through BP's
wholly-owned subsidiary <BP America Inc>. BP took a 25 pct stake in
Standard in 1970, raising its stake to 53 pct in 1978 and 55 pct in
1984. BP chairman Sir Peter Walters will be chairman of BP America,
while Robert Horton is to be vice-chairman and chief executive
officer, with Frank Mosier as president. BP said further details would
be released on July 21. Reuter 

GABELLI FIRMS HOLD 28.5 DIGIORGIO <DIG> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
A group of firms led by Gabelli Group Inc told government regulators
it holds a 28.5 pct stake in Digiorgio Corp common stock, and said two
partnerships making up part of the group may seek control of the
company. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Comission, the
group of firms said it holds 2,430,100 shares of Digiorgio common
stock. Of the total, 2,059,400 shares are held by GAMCO Investors Inc
and Gabelli Funds Inc. for investment purposes, the group said.
Gabelli-Rosenthal and Partners LP and G and R Partners, which hold the
remaining 370,700 Digiorgio common shares, told the SEC their "purpose
is to ultimately obtain control of Digiorgio contingent upon approval
of Digiorgio," according to the SEC filing. As previously reported,
Gabelli and Co Inc, acting as investment advisor to a group including
Gabelli-Rosenthal, proposed on June 25 to acquire all Digiorgio common
shares for a per share price of 20 dlrs in cash, a subordinated note
with a face value of eight dlrs, 14 pct redeemable preferred stock,
and one common share of the post-buyout company. The June 25 buyout
proposal, which remains open until July 17, also provides that key
members of Digiorgio management and some of its directors would be
invited to remain with the firm and participate in the group acquiring
the company. The proposal is also subject to a due diligence review,
execution of a merger agreement, arrangement of financing and receipt
of government approvals, all of which Gabelli and Co said could be
completed within 60 days. Between April 13 and June 26, the entire
group led by Gabelli Group Inc made net purchases of 403,600 Digiorgio
common shares at 22.20 dlrs to 26.79 dlrs a share. Reuter 

DURAKON <DRKN.O> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    LAPEER, Mich., Oct 19 - 
Durakon Industries Inc said it has entered into a definitive agreement
to acquire DFM Corp, a maker of bug and gravel protective shields for
trucks and cars, for an undisclosed amount of cash and debentures,
retroactive to September One. Reuter 

NIPPON STEEL DENIES CHINA SEEKING JAPANESE PLANTS
    TOKYO, April 8 - 
Nippon Steel Corp <NSTC.T> denied local newspaper reports that China
has been seeking to buy steel plants from Japanese firms which plan to
suspend output under the recently announced rationalisation program.
The Mainichi Shimbun quoted Nippon Steel as saying that China's State
Planning Commission and some Chinese firms have asked Japanese makers
to sell them steel works and rolling mills to expand steelmaking
cheaply. It named no sources. A Nippon Steel spokesman told Reuters
that China has made no such official request, and the company was not
considering such sales at the moment. But Mainichi quoted Nippon Steel
officials as saying if prices are reasonable, they would export their
used mills to China. The paper said China's crude steel output
totalled 52 mln tonnes in calendar 1986 and that it plans to increase
to 80 mln by 1996. Japan's steel industry rationalisation plan is
aimed at cutting production capacity sharply over the next few years.
REUTER 

CABLEVISION SYSTEMS <CVCC> BUYS STATIONS
     WOODBURY, N.Y., June 29 - 
Cablevision Systems Corp said it bought cable television systems in
six Dutchess County, N.Y., communities from Dutchess County
Cablevision Associates Ltd. The company said the acquisition of the
new systems will add to its presence in New York. It said it will add
4,400 subsribers to its 568,000 subscriber base. Reuter 

RENTA INMOBILIARIA SEEKS CANNON GROUP <CAN> ASSETS
    MADRID, Oct 19 - 
Spanish property firm <Renta Inmobiliaria SA> is negotiating to buy
the property assets of U.S. media company Cannon Group Inc <CAN>,
Renta's finance director Jose Luis Sanchez said. Sanchez told Reuters
that Renta's chairman Juan Antonio Robles was currently in the U.S. to
negotiate the deal but declined to give other details. Interpart, a
Luxembourg-based holding company chaired by Italian financier
Giancarlo Paretti, payed around 12.2 billion pesetas in July to
acquire a 63.5 pct stake in Renta Inmobiliaria. The Spanish daily
newspaper El Pais said the Cannon property assets sought by Renta
included the Elstree film studios in Britain and a chain of movie-
theaters in Europe and the U.S. Reuter 

ELECTROHOME <EL.X.TO> TO SELL UNIT
    Kitchener, Ontario, April 13 - 
Electrohome Ltd said it agreed to sell certain assets of the computer
service sector of its AABEX service division to Canadian General
Electric Co Ltd <CGE.TO>. Terms were not disclosed. The closing date
is expected to be May 1, 1987. Reuter 

TECSYN <TSNA.TO> TERMINATES TAKEOVER TALKS
    ST. CATHARINES, Ontario, June 29 - 
TecSyn International Inc said it terminated takeover discussions with
a U.S.-based investors group after the group was unable to establish
access to funds to complete the proposed transactions, contrary to
previous assurances. TecSyn previously said it and its controlling
shareholders accepted in principle a proposal from the group to offer
nine dlrs a share for 70 pct of TecSyn's outstanding shares. The
investor group also planned to invest 22.5 mln dlrs in a private
placement of four mln non-voting TecSyn common shares, the company
said. Reuter 

HOSPITAL CORP SAYS IT RECEIVED 47 DLR A SHARE OFFER FROM INVESTOR GROUP




TELEX <TC> ADOPTS SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN
    DALLAS, Oct 9 - 
Telex Corp said its board adopted a shareholder rights plan which will
allow shareholders to purchase one common share for two dlrs if a
hostile group acquires 15 pct or more of the company. However, the
company said the plan will not be triggered by purchases pursuant to
the 65 dlrs a share tender offer commenced on October 9 by a unit of
TLX Partners, a group controlled by New York financier Asher Edelman.
It said the rights will be distributed on a one for one basis to all
shareholders as of October 30 and may be redeemed before they become
exercisable at five cents per right. The company said the rights will
expire on the later of February 17 next year or 60 days from the date
they become exercisable. It said the plan was intended to protect
stockholders against any attempt to take unfair advantage of the
recent decline in stock prices or to use abusive tactics such as
market accumulations which would interfere with its ability to
maximize stockholder value. The rights become exercisable if any
person or group acquires 15 pct or more of the company's common stock
other than through an all cash tender offer for all outstanding shares
at 65 dlrs per share. It said the rights will also not become
exercisable if the company is acquired by a group under an agreement
made with its board. A spokeswoman told Reuters the company would have
an official response to Edelman's bid by Friday, Oct 23. Reuter 

JACOBS SELLS STAKE IN GILLETTE <GS>
    CHICAGO, Oct 20 - 
Minneapolis investor Irwin Jacobs said he sold the stake he held in
Gillette Co <GS> after deciding that he could not force Gillette to
accept a 47 dlr a share takeover bid made by Revlon Group Inc <REV>.
Revlon's bid expired last week after being repeatedly rejected by
Gillette. Jacobs had earlier considered waging a proxy fight over
Gillette. Jacobs told Reuters he sold the Gillette stake, which he
called "substantial" but under five pct, a few weeks ago over a period
of several days. He said he sold the stock at a profit, but did not
disclose the selling price. Gillette's stock was at 24-1/8, up 1/8, in
morning trade, off the high of 45-7/8 reached after Revlon announced
its bid. Jacobs said he sold his Gillette stake based on an
"investment decision. I surely did not see this happening," he said of
Monday's stock market free-fall. A Gillette spokesman said the mpany
had no comment. Jacobs said he and fellow investor Carl Pohlad
continue to hold a stake in Allegheny International Inc <AG>. In
August they disclosed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing
that they had acquired 854,900 shares, or 7.9 pct, of Allegheny and
would consideer seeking control of the company. Reuter 

LASMO CANADA TO MERGE WITH ONYX PETROLEUM
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
LASMO Exploration (Canada) Ltd, a subsidiary of London & Scottish
Marine Oil Plc <LSML.L>, is merging with <Onyx Petroleum Exploration
Co Ltd>, LASMO said. The merger is to be made by Onyx buying LASMO
Exploration, in a share swap. A new company, LASMO Canada Inc, will be
formed. LASMO will control 70 pct of the equity, worth some 76 mln
Canadian dlrs based on the current Onyx share price. The new company
will have proven reserves of 9.5 mln barrels of oil and 20.9 billion
cubic feet of gas, LASMO said. Reuter 

SCIENCE ACCESSORIES <SEAS.O> ENDS PURCHASE TALKS
    SOUTHPORT, Conn., Oct 20 - 
Science Accessories Corp said it has ended talks on acquiring
privately-held Owl Electronics Laborarories Inc because it could not
reach satisfactory terms. Reuter 

WESTERN MINING SELLS ACM STAKE
    MELBOURNE, April 13 - 
Western Mining Corp Holdings Ltd <WMNG.S> (WMC) said it sold its
entire holding of 22.13 mln shares in the gold mining company
<Australian Consolidated Minerals Ltd> (ACM). WMC gave no details, but
stockbrokers said the sale was made at eight dlrs a share on Friday to
a number of U.S., European and Australian investors through WMC's
usual brokers. The company purchased the 19.9 pct parcel in early
March from Amax Inc <AMX.N> at 6.32 dlrs a share ahead of a one-for-
three bonus issue when Amax sold its entire 47 pct stake in ACM to a
number of local companies. REUTER 

GENCORP INC SAYS TO SELL GENERAL TIRE TO CONTINENTAL
GUMMI FOR 650 MLN DLRS




CONRAC CORP SAID IT HAS ENTERED TALKS ON ITS ACQUISITION WITH SEVERAL PARTIES




GAF <GAF> STUDYING BORG-WARNER <BOR> PLAN
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
GAF Corp is studying an agreement under which Merrill Lynch Capital
Partners will take Borg-Warner Corp private in a 4.23 billion dlr
transaction, a GAF spokesman said. The spokesman had no further
comment. Analysts said there was speculation GAF would make a new
offer for the Chicago-based plastics and automobile parts company.
Borg-Warner's stock rose 7/8 to 49-1/4, above the Merrill Lynch 48.50
dlrs per share tender offer price. Merrill Lynch Capital Partners, a
unit of Merrill Lynch and Co, is tendering for 89 pct of Borg-Warner
and offering a package of cash and securities for the balance of the
shares. GAF had offered 46 dlrs per share previously. It holds 19.9
pct of Borg-Warner's stock. Reuter 

USAIR <U> REPORTS FINAL PRORATION FACTOR
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
USAir Group Inc said, in announcing the final proration factor for its
tender offer for Piedmont Aviation Inc <PIE>, that 17.0 mln shares, or
90 pct of the shares were validly tendered. USAir said it has
purchased and will pay for 9.3 mln shares, representing about 55 pct
of those tendered. Reuter 

APPLIED DATA <ADCC.O> TO BUY DATELINE
    TUSTIN, Calif., June 19 - 
Applied Data Communications said it agreed to acquire privately-held
Dateline Technology Inc of Redmond, Wash., for an undisclosed amount
of cash and stock. Dateline Technology designs and sells high-
capacity, high-speed computer peripheral subsystems, primarily for
data storage, Applied Data said. Reuter 

HONG KONG FIRM HAS 5.1 PCT OF MCGILL <MGLL.O>
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd told the Securities and Exchange
Commission it has acquired 72,600 shares of McGill Manufacturing Co
Inc, or 5.1 pct of the total outstanding common stock. Industrial
Equity, which is principally owned by Brierley Investments Ltd, a
publicly held New Zealand firm, said it bought the stake for 2.3 mln
dlrs for investment purposes. It said it may add to its stake, or sell
some or all of it, but has no plans to seek control of the company.
Reuter 

WALLACE COMPUTER <WCS> BUY OFFICE PRODUCTS FIRM
    HILLSIDE, ILL., June 1 - 
Wallace Computer Services Inc said it acquired for 12 mln dlrs in cash
and industrial revenue bonds, certain assets of Rockwell-Barnes Inc, a
Chicago-based office products company. Reuter 

PEPSICO UNIT <PEP> LIFTS <CALNY.O> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Taco Bell Corp, a unit of Pepsico Inc, said it increased its stake in
Calny Inc common stock to 1,349,884 shares, or 27.9 pct of the total
outstanding, from a previous figure of approximately 1,230,107 shares,
or 25.4 pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Taco Bell said it bought 119,867 Calny common shares on October 15 and
16 at 10.75 dlrs a share. No reason was given for the recent
purchases. Reuter 

BECOR <BCW> TO ADJOURN DELAYED HOLDERS MEETING
    SOUTH MILWAUKEE, Wisc, June 29 - 
Becor Western Inc said no business will be transacted at the
shareholders meeting scheduled for 1000 CDT tomorrow and the meeting
will be permanently adjourned. If a definitive agreement or
transaction results from any of the offers now pending for the
company's stock, Becor said, a date for a new shareholders meeting
will be established. Reuter 

ANHEUSER-BUSCH JOINS BID FOR SAN MIGUEL
    MANILA, April 8 - 
Anheuser-Busch Companies Inc <BUD.N> has joined several other foreign
bidders for sequestered shares of the Philippines' largest food and
beverage maker San Miguel Corp <SANM.MN>, the head of a government
panel which controls the shares told Reuters. Ramon Diaz, Secretary of
the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG), said Anheuser-
Busch had told the government it was interested in buying 14 mln "B"
shares of San Miguel. He did not disclose the offered price. Diaz said
Australian brewer Alan Bond's Bond Corp Holdings Ltd had offered 150
pesos per share for the "B" shares. Diaz said New York investment bank
Allen and Co Inc had earlier said it was interested in buying all 38.1
mln sequestered shares. He told Reuters last month Elders IXL Ltd
<ELXA.S>, the Melbourne-based brewing company, had also bid for the
"B" shares. The Hong Kong Economic Journal last month quoted a
spokesman of Australian stock broker Jacksons Ltd as saying that
<Barwon Farmlands Ltd>, an Australian firm owned 30 pct by <Ariadne
Australia Ltd>, was planning a Filipino branch in order to buy the
entire block of 38.1 mln shares. Anheuser-Busch last year made a 150
mln dlr bid to buy <San Miguel Brewery Ltd>, a Hong Kong listed
company which is 69.65 pct owned by <Neptunia Corp Ltd>, a San Miguel
Corp subsidiary. The talks broke down last June after the two sides
said they could not agree on the terms of the sale. REUTER 

COLT INDUSTRIES <COT> TO SELL BRITISH UNIT
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Colt Industries Inc said it signed a conditional agreement to sell its
Woodville Polymer Engineering Ltd subsidiary in Great Britain to the
Dowty Group PLC of Gloucestershire, England, for 35.9 mln stg. The
deal is scheduled to close by the end of June, the company said.
Woodville, which makes high technology precision products for
aerospace, automotive and other industries, had 1986 sales of about 24
mln stg, it said. Reuter 

DART GROUP SAID IT WILL NOT SOLICIT PROXIES OR ATTEMPT TO ACQUIRE DAYTON HUDSON




XEROX <XRX> AFFILIATE TO SELL S.AFRICAN UNIT
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Xerox Corp's affiliate Rank Xerox Ltd said it signed a definitive
agreement to sell its Rank Xerox South Africa Pty Ltd affiliate to
Altron Group <ALRN.O>, for undisclosed terms. Xerox said the
preliminary agreement to sell the affiliate to Fintech, an Altron
unit, had been reached in March. Xerox said completion of the sale
awaits approval of Fintech shareholders and a review by the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Rank Xerox South Africa was founded in
1964 as a wholly owned unit of Rank Xerox, the Xerox affiliate that
manufactures and markets Xerox products in the Eastern Hemisphere.
Rank Xerox said that of the 800-man workforce of Rank Xerox South
Africa, 40 pct are black, colored or Asian. The company will become a
wholly owned unit of Altron. Reuter 

GOODMAN FIELDER HAS 29.9 PCT OF RANKS HOVIS
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
Goodman Fielder Ltd <GOOW.S> of Australia said in a statement that it
had acquired 31 mln ordinary shares in Ranks Hovis McDougall Plc
<RHML.L> (RHM), bringing its stake in the company to 29.9 pct or 101
mln ordinary shares. Goodman said it has no intention of making a full
bid for the company and would not contemplate doing so over the next
six months in the absence of a material change in the circumstances of
Ranks. RHM said it regards the stake build-up as a hostile move which
is unwelcome and not in the long term interest of shareholders. Reuter


NAPCO <NPCO> MANAGEMENT CANNOT RAISE FUNDING
    HOPKINS, MINN., April 9 - 
Napco International Inc said it has suspended its plan to sell its
international business to a group of that business' top managers
because the group has failed to obtain satisfactory financing. The
company also said it still intends to pursue a new corporate
direction, and is exploring acquisition alternatives. Reuter 

HENLEY GROUP REVIEWING INVESTMENT IN SANTA FE SOUTHERN PACIFIC




STE-GENEVIEVE UPS OFFER FOR SULLIVAN <SUM.TO>
    MONTREAL, June 29 - 
Ste-Genevieve Resources Ltd said it increased its cash takeover bid
for Sullivan Mines Inc shares to 7.25 dlrs a share. It did not give
the original bid. The offer is for a minimum five mln common shares
and a maximum six mln shares, the company said. It gave no further
details. Reuter 

UNILEVER DECLINES COMMENT ON GILLETTE BID RUMOURS
    LONDON, June 18 - 
A spokesman for Unilever Plc <UN.AS> declined to comment on market
rumours that it may be considering a bid for the U.S. Health care
group The Gillette Co <GS.N>. Gillette shares are traded on the over-
the-counter market in London and this morning stood one dollar higher
at 38 dlrs in response to the bid speculation. Unilever dipped 33p to
3,275 in a generally depressed U.K. Market. Most analysts dismissed
the rumours saying it was an old story, and one commented that it was
"utter rubbish," adding he thought Unilever would not be interested in
Gillette. Gillette shares rose sharply at the beginning of the month
on Wall Street rumours that Sir James Goldsmith was building a stake
in the company. Gillette has been the subject of repeated rumours
since Ronald Perelman, chairman of the Revlon Group Inc <REV>, made an
unsuccessful bid for the company last year. REUTER 

REAL ESTATE FIRM CUTS INTERMAGNETICS<INMA> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
Roland International Corp, a Coconut Grove, Fla., real estate
development company, said it cut its stake in Intermagnetics General
Corp to 308,400 shares, or 4.8 pct of the total outstanding, from
358,400 shares, or 5.6 pct. In a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Roland said it sold 50,000 shares on Feb 4 at
5.13 dlrs each. As long as Roland's stake in Intermagnetics General is
below five pct, it is not required to report any further dealings in
the company's stock. Reuter 

JACOR <JCOR> TO BUY TWO DENVER RADIO STATIONS
    CINCINNATI, April 9 - 
Jacor Communications Inc said it agreed to buy two Denver radio
stations from A.H. Belo Corp <BLC> for 24 mln dlrs in cash and notes.
Jacor said the two stations are KOA-AM and KOAQ-FM. The acquisitions
must be approved by the Federal Communications Commission, Jacor
added. Reuter 

THOMSON TAKES OVER THORN EMI AUDIOVISUAL
    PARIS, June 18 - 
Thomson Grand Public, the subsidiary of Thomson SA <THMP.PA>, has
taken over the audiovisual consumer goods division of British group
Thorn EMI, Thomson Grand Public chairman Pierre Garcin said. The cost
of the deal, signed late yesterday, is around 90 mln stg and Thomson
will finance 50 mln of this from its equity. Thorn EMI is a leader in
the British audiovisual market with a turnover last year of 300 mln
stg. Garcin said the new acquisition would substantially increase
Thomson's turnover in the sector. REUTER 

HARCOURT BRACE <HBJ> CALLS SPECIAL MEETING
    ORLANDO, Fla., June 18 - 
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc said it has called a special meeting for
July 23 for a vote on an increase in authorized common shares to 100
mln from 50 mln, an increase in preferred shares to 150 mln from
2,500,000 and a provision allowing the payment of preferred dividends
in stock or property as well as cash. The company said June 29 will be
the record date for the meeting. Harcourt which is fighting off a
takeover bid from <British Printing and Communication Corp PLC>, has
declared a special dividend on common stock of 40 dlrs in cash and 12
pct preferred stock with a market value of 10 dlrs per share. The
special dividend is to be paid July 27. Reuter 

RESDEL <RSDL.O> TO MERGE WITH SAN/BAR <SBAR.O>
    NEWPORT BEACH, Calif., April 13 - 
Resdel Industries said it and San/Bar Corp has agreed to merge San/Bar
into Resdel. The arrangement calls for San/Bar to spin-off assets of
its Break-Free division to shareholders then exchange its own shares
for Resdel stock at a ratio of one Resdel share for each San/Bar share
held, Resdel said. Reuter 

GREAT ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC TEA CO SAID IT WITHDREW ITS OFFER TO BUY DELCHAMPS INC




N.Z.'S CHASE CORP MAKES OFFER FOR ENTREGROWTH
    WELLINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Chase Corp Ltd <CHCA.WE> said it will make an offer for all fully-paid
shares and options of <Entregrowth International Ltd> it does not
already own. Chase, a property investment firm, said it holds 48 pct
of Entregrowth, its vehicle for expansion in North America. It said
agreements are being concluded to give it a beneficial 72.4 pct
interest. The offer for the remaining shares is one Chase share for
every three Entregrowth shares and one Chase option for every four
Entregrowth options. Chase shares closed on Friday at 4.41 dlrs and
the options at 2.38. Entregrowth closed at 1.35 dlrs and options at 55
cents. Chase said the offer for the remaining 27.6 pct of Entregrowth,
worth 34.2 mln dlrs, involved the issue of 5.80 mln Chase shares and
3.10 mln Chase options. Chase chairman Colin Reynolds said the
takeover would allow Entregrowth to concentrate on North American
operations with access to Chase's international funding base and a
stronger executive team. He said there also would be benefits from
integrating New Zealand investment activities. Chase said the offer is
conditional it receiving accptances for at least 90 pct of the shares
and options. REUTER 

CCR VIDEO <CCCR.O> IN TALKS ON BEING ACQUIRED
    LOS ANGELES, Oct 19 - 
CCR Video Corp said it has received an offer to enter into
negotiations for <Intercep Investment Corp> to acquire a controlling
interest through a tender offer. The company said "The negotiations
would determine the terms under which the CCR board of directors could
support the INTERCEP tender offer." It gave no further details. Reuter


BEVIS <BEVI> RECEIVES TAKEOVER INQUIRIES
    PROVIDENCE, R.I., April 9 - 
Bevis Industries Inc, which has been seeking to be acquired, said it
recently received inquiries concerning the purchase of the company.
The company did not identify the parties that made the inquiries, but
it said they had been referred to its investment bankers, Tucker,
Anthony and R.L. Day Inc, for study. On March 18, the company said it
engaged Tucker, Anthony to seek purchasers of its operating units,
Greenville Tube Corp and MD Pneumatics Inc. Reuter 

INFO-DATA TO ACQUIRE USA OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
    DEERFIELD BEACH, Fla., June 1 - 
<Info-Data Inc> said it will acquire <USA Outdoor Advertising Inc> of
Jacksonville, Fla., in exchange for stock. USA Outdoor Advertising was
acquired for 62.4 pct of the outstanding shares of Info-Data Inc, the
company said. Info-Data said it plans to change its name to USA
Outdoor Advertising Inc to reflect the change in the company's
operations. Reuter 

CDC LIFE SCIENCES <LSI.TO> STAKE SOLD
    TORONTO, June 29 - 
Canada Development Corp <CDC.TO> said it agreed to sell its 25.2 pct
interest in CDC Life Sciences Inc to Caisse de depot et placement du
Quebec, the provincial pension fund manager, and Institut Merieux, a
French biological laboratory company, for 169.2 mln dlrs. It said the
caisse and Institut Merieux will each buy 2.75 mln common shares of
the company for 30.76 dlrs a share. It said following the transaction
the caisse will hold about 19.3 pct of CDC Life Sciences. Canada
Development said the purchasers do not plan to acquire the remaining
publicly-held shares. Reuter 

COLONIAL BANCGROUP <CLBGA> BUYS DESTIN BANK
    MONTGOMERY, Ala., June 19 - 
Colonial Bancgroup said it agreed to buy <First National Bank of
Destin> for an undisclosed sum. The company said if it is approved,
the sale will mark its second move to acquire a Florida bank. It said
it signed a letter of intent to buy Liberty Bank of Pensacola in
April. Reuter 

BOND CORP TO ACQUIRE 80 PCT OF MERLIN PETE
    PERTH, April 13 - 
Bond Corp Holdings Ltd <BONA.S> said it has agreed to acquire an 80
pct stake in <Merlin International Petroleum Corp> from <Crowley
Maritime Corp> for 90.8 mln U.S. Dlrs. Of this total, 7.8 mln dlrs is
due on exchange of contracts on April 30 and 69 mln on July 7, subject
to any regulatory approvals being obtained, Bond said in a statement.
The balance of 14 mln dlrs will be paid as required by Merlin for its
exploration and production commitments, it said. Bond said Merlin has
a 6.25 pct working interest plus a 2.5 pct reversionary interest in
the Papua New Guinea permit, PPL-17, the site of the Iagifu oil
discovery. Merlin also has a 12.5 pct stake in the adjacent Papuan
Basin permit, PPL-18, which contains the Juha gas and condensate
discovery. In addition to Papua New Guinea, Merlin has petroleum
exploration and production interests in the U.S., Bond added. REUTER 

INVESTMENT FIRM UPS FRANCE FUND <FRN> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
VBI Corp, a British West Indies investment firm, told the Securities
and Exchange Commission it raised its stake in France Fund Inc to
1,075,700 shares, or 14.3 pct of the total, from 896,500 shares, or
11.9 pct. VBI said it bought 179,200 France Fund common shares between
April 24 and June 2 at prices ranging from 13.000 to 14.125 dlrs a
share. Reuter 

BECOR WESTERN <BCW>AGAIN ADJOURNS HOLDER MEETING
    SOUTH MILWAUKEE, Wis., June 18 - 
Becor Western Inc said its reconvened shareholders meeting has been
adjourned to 1000 CDT June 30. The company had previously announced
plans to again adjourn the meeting following receipt of a renewed
offer from Lynch Corp <LGL> yesterday. The meeting was originally
convened on June four when shareholders approved the sale of Becor's
Western Gear Corp subsidiary before adjourning. The remaining matter
to be presented is the proposed acquisition of Becor by BCW
Acquisition Inc, now one of four offers for the company./ Reuter 

CINCINNATI BELL <CSN> STARTS AUXTON <AUXT> BID
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
Cincinnati Bell Inc said it has started its previously-announced 15.75
dlr per share tender offer for all shares of Auxton Computer
Enterprises Inc. In a newspaper advertisement, the company said the
tender and withdrawal rights will expire May Five unless extended. The
offer, which has been approved by the Auxton board and is to be
followed by a merger at the same price, is conditioned on receipt of a
majority of Auxton's voting stock on a fully diluted basis. Reuter 

CHAMPION HOME <CHB> SELLS TWO PROPERTIES
    DRYDEN, Mich., June 2 - 
Champion Home Builders Inc said it sold the Commerce Meadows 600-site
manufactured housing rental community in Commerce Township, Michigan,
for a pre-tax gain of about 900,000 dlrs and the Heron Cay 610-site
adult community in Vero Beach, Florida, for a nominal pre-tax gain.
The company said the sales proceeds will be partly used to reduce
debt. It said it is shifting its focus away from the development of
communities requiring significant equity and having lengthy projected
life cycles. The company also said along with local landowners and
investors, it will acquire 33-acre tract Northtowne Meadows in the
Toledo, Ohio, area for development into 160 home sites and three acres
of commercial land. Terms of the transactions and other parties
involved were not disclosed. Reuter 

BASS GROUP HAS STAKE IN BELL AND HOWELL <BHW>
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
An investor group led by Robert Bass of Fort Worth, Texas said it owns
786,800 shares of Bell and Howell Co common stock, equal to 8.9 pct of
the company's common stock outstanding. In a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said it purchased
511,500 Bell and Howell common shares between April 29 and June 26 at
44.25 dlrs to 56.02 dlrs a share. The stock was acquired for
investment purposes, the group said, adding it may purchase or sell
additional shares in the future. Reuter 

RTE CORP <RTE> BUYS EMHART CORP UNIT
     BROOKFIELD, Wis., June 29 - 
RTE Corp said it completed the purchase of Emhart Corp's United States
aluminum electrolytic capacitor business for an undisclosed sum. The
company said the capacitor business is part of Emhart's electrical and
electronic group marketed under the Mallory brand name. The company
said the product lines it acquired had sales of 25 mln dlrs last year.
Reuter 

AMEX SAYS BEAR STEARNS BOUGHT SPECIALIST UNIT
    NEW YORK, Oct. 20 - 
The American Stock Exchange said, as previously reported, that Bear
Stearns and Co <BSC> has purchased <W. Damm, M. Frank and Co>, a
specialist unit on the Amex trading floor. Amex said the unit, which
trades stocks and options is small in comparison to other specialist
units. The personel and operations remain the same, the exchange
added. The price was not disclosed. A specialist unit is authorized by
a stock exchange to deal as an agent for other brokers to keep a
stable market in one or more particular stocks. Reuter 

ATLANTIC FINANCIAL <ATLF.O> TO ACQUIRE S AND L
    BALA CYNWYD, Pa., April 13 - 
Atlantic Financial said it signed a definitive agreement to acquire
<Centurion Savings and Loan Association>. Atlantic did not disclose
the purchase price. Atlantic said it originally announced its
intention to acquire Centurion, located in Los Angeles, on Feb 23,
1987. Centurion has assets of 105 mln dlrs, Atlantic said. Reuter 

U.S COMMERCE DEPT OPPOSES FOREIGN TAKEOVER BAN
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
Commerce Undersecretary J. Michael Farren opposed language in the
trade bill before Congress to limit foreign takeovers of U.S.
companies. "Anything that would serve to have a chilling effect on
foreign investment is going to cost us jobs and economic growth,"
Farren said before a congressional coittee. House and Senate
negotiators are ironing out differences in trade bills passed by both
chambers. Once the negotiators reach agreement, the bill will be sent
to President Reagan for his signature. Reuter 

CLEVITE <CLEV> GETS 13.50 DLR/SHR OFFER
    GLENVIEW, ILL., April 9 - 
Clevite Industries Inc said it received a written proposal from J.P.
Industries Inc <JPI> seeking to buy all of its outstanding shares for
13.50 dlrs a share. Clevite's stock was trading on NASDAQ at 13-1/4.
J.P. Industries recently completed the acquisition of Clevite's Engine
Parts Division. J.P. Industries said its proposed transaction would be
financed through borrowings under its available bank lines and a
bridge financing facility which Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette
Securities Corp agreed to arrange. To expedite the transaction, J.P.
Industries said it would be willing to start a cash tender for
Clevite's shares within five days after agreeing upon a definitive
merger and confirmation of Clevite's financial results and condition.
Reuter 

ARCHER-DANIELS <ADM> DENIES RUMOR
    CHICAGO, June 19 - 
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co denied a report that it is interested in
acquiring International Minerals and Chemical Corp (IGL). "We have no
interest in International Minerals or any of its divisions," a
spokesman told Reuters. "We've had no conversations with them." USA
Today reported that Archer-Daniels-Midland might be seeking a hostile
takeover of International Minerals. Reuter 

CORADIAN <CDIN.O> STAKE ACQUIRED BY SAGE
    ALBANY, N.Y., June 29 - 
Coradian Corp said a group led by privately held Sage Equities Group
agreed to buy a 7.6 pct interest in Coradian. In connection with the
agreement, the company said it sold 666,667 shares at 75 cts a share.
It said that in addition to common stock, Sage Equities will receive
667,667 warrants exercisable at 1.50 dlrs a share. Reuter 

A/W BRANDS <SODA.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    WHITE PLAINS, N.Y., Oct 20 - 
A and W Brands Inc said it completed the acquisition of Vernors Inc
from United Brands Co <UB> in a cash and stock transaction worth
valued at about 10 mln dlrs Reuter 

<EMCOR> COMPLETES SALE OF STOCK TO INVESTORS
    SOUTH PLAINFIELD, N.J., April 9 - 
Emcore said it completed the sale of 4.1 mln dlrs of stock to Citicorp
Venture Capital Ltd, Concord Ventures of Dillon Read and Co and
private investors. Reuter 

FOUNDATION CUTS WURLITZER <WUR> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
The Farny R. Wurlitzer Foundation told the Securities and Exchange
Commission it cut its stake in Wurlitzer Co to 89,000 shares, or 4.98
pct of the total outstanding common stock, from 125,000 shares, or 7.0
pct. The foundation said it sold 36,000 Wurlitzer common shares
between March 13 and 30 at prices ranging from 3.25 to 2.375 dlrs a
share. As long as the foundation's stake in Wurlitzer is below five
pct, it is not required to report further dealings it has in the
company's common stock. Reuter 

WINTERHALTER <WNTLC> HOLDERS OKAY TAKEOVER
    ANN ARBOR, Mich., April 9 - 
Winterhalter Inc said its shareholders approved the 525,000 dlr
acquisition of Winterhalter by Interface Systems Inc <INTF>. The
acquisition would be for 15 cts per Winterhalter share. Reuter 

GATEWAY <GMSI.O> RECINDS OFFER FOR WESTWORLD
    ATLANTA, June 19 - 
Gateway Medical Systems Inc said it has withdrawn its May 27 offer to
acquire <Westworld Community Healthcare Inc>. The company said it
remains interested in acquiring the Westworld's hospitals and will
attempt to continue negotiations with Westworld. Reuter 

FIRST CITY <FCY> SELLS YALE, NUTONE UNITS
    BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., June 1 - 
First City Industries Inc said it has reached a definitive agreement
to sell its Nuton and Yale security subsidiaries to Valor PLC for 400
mln dlrs and warrants to purchase two mln Valor ordinary shares. In
addition, the company said it will recieve a special dividend of 60
mln dlrs from Nutone and Yale and it has agreed to buy 35 mln dlrs of
Valor convertible preference shares. First City said it is seeking to
increase shareholder values by improving and realizing the values
inherent in its operating subsidiaries. The company said the
transaction is subject to approval by shareholders of Valor and is
expected to be completed within 40 days. It said Valor has arranged
financing through an issue of ordinary and convertible preference
shares underwritten by Hoare Govette Ltd and Barclays de Zoete Wedd
Ltd. Nutone makes built-in electric products for the housing market
and Yale makes door locks and electronic security products. Valor
makes home products. Reuter 

E.F. HUTTON <EFH> UNIT'S PUROLATOR OFFER EXPIRES
    NEW YORK, April 9 - 
E.F. Hutton LBO Inc said the tender offer by its wholly owned unit, PC
Acquisition Inc, for Purolator Courier Corp <PCC> expired at 2400 EDT
yesterday without the purchase of any Purolator common stock. Hutton
added that PC Acquisition also terminated its merger agreement with
Purolator. Hutton said the offer, which had been conditioned upon the
tender of at least 5,116,892 Purolator shares, or about two-thirds of
the outstanding shares, was terminated because the minimum number of
shares was not tendered. Purolator had entered into a definitive
agreement with PC Acquisition, part-owned by E.F. Hutton LBO Inc, a
unit of E.F. Hutton, and some officers of Purolator's U.S. courier
division, in which PC offered to purchase 6,332,471 Purolator common
stock shares for 35 dlrs a share. Following that move, PC Acquisition
planned to merge a subsidiary into Purolator, converting all
outstanding Purolator common it did not own into an aggregate 46 mln
dlrs principal amount of 12 pct guaranteed debentures due 2002 and
warrants to purchase 15 pct of a Purolator unit comprised of
Purolator's U.S courier operations. Hutton said as of 2400 EDT
yesterday about 181,000 shares of Purolator common stock, or about 2.4
pct of the outstanding shares, had been validly tendered and not
withdrawn. PC Acquisition has instructed its depository for the offer
to return promptly the Purolator stock deposited by, or on behalf of,
tendering shareholders, Hutton said. Reuter 

MAXWELL WOULD NOT RENEW BID IF SUIT FAILS
    London, June 1 - 
British press magnate Robert Maxwell said his British Printing and
Communication Corp Plc would not renew its bid for Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich Inc <HBJ> if the lawsuit filed against Harcourt in New York
today fails. Speaking at a press conference, Maxwell denied market
rumors that British Printing had approached British institutions to
arrange a rights issue with a view to relaunching its bid for the U.S.
publishing concern. "I don't believe in chasing mirages," maxwell
said. British Printing filed suit in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
to block what Maxwell called a fraudulent recapitalization announced
by Harcourt last week. Harcourt, in response to a hostile two billion
dlr takeover proposal from Maxwell, planned a recapitalization that
would pay shareholders 40 dlrs per share. Under the plan, it also said
40 pct of its shares will be controlled by its employees, management,
and its financial adviser, First Boston Corp <FBC>. Reuter 

BARRIS IND. SAYS IT LEADS GROUP WITH 9.8 PCT OF MEDIA GENERAL, MAY SEEK CONTROL




GAF <GAF> SEEKS INFORMATION ON BORG-WARNER<BOR>
    New York, April 13 - 
GAF Corp said it is exploring its options in response to Merrill Lynch
Capital Partners' 4.23 billion dlr offer for Borg-Warner Corp, and it
has asked for all information that was supplied to Merrill Lynch. A
GAF spokesman said the company asked for the information in order to
enable GAF to fully evaluate its alternatives. The spokesman also
confirmed that GAF did raise its bid to 48 dlrs cash from 46 dlrs per
share on Friday. Merrill is offering 48.50 dlrs per share cash for 89
pct of Borg-Warner, and a package of cash and securities for the
balance. The transaction with Merrill Lynch will take Borg-Warner
private in the form of a leveraged buyout. Merrill Lynch does not
intend to sell Borg-Warner assets, but it may be forced to do so in
financing the deal, said sources familiar with the transaction. Borg-
Warner has said its management is not a participant in the
transaction, but managers will retain their positions. The investors
involved with Merrill include pension funds, insurance companies and
other institutional investors, sources said. Analysts believe GAF,
which owns 19.9 pct of Borg-Warner, will raise its offer. That
speculation drove Borg-warner stock up 1-3/8 to 49-5/8 in heavy
trading. GAF closed at 49-5/8, off 3/4. Reuter 

NEW JERSEY INVESTOR BUYS 5.2 PCT OF KINARK <KIN>
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
A New Jersey investor, Joseph Falkenstein, told the Securities and
Exchange Commission he holds 5.2 pct of the shares of Kinark Corp. He
said he has no plans to change the company and that he bought the
shares because he believed the stock was undervalued and would rise in
the next six months. reuter 

PHILIP CROSBY <PCRO.O> MAKES ACQUISITION
    WINTER HAVEN, Fla., June 1 - 
Philip Crosby Associates Inc said it has agreed to acquire Process
Integrity Inc of Dallas, a computer software designer, for undisclosed
terms. It said Process' software helps companies monitor industrial
processes, identifies problems and recommends solutions. Reuter 

CANADIAN BASHAW, ERSKINE RESOURCES TO MERGE
    Edmonton, Alberta, April 8 - 
Canadian Bashaw Leduc Oil and Gas Ltd said it agreed to merge with
Erskine Resources Ltd. Terms were not disclosed. Ownership of the
combined company with 18.8 pct for the current shareholders of
Canadian Bashaw and 81.2 pct to the current shareholders of Erskine,
the companies said. Reuter 

P.H. GLATFELTER CO SAYS IT WILL BUY ECUSTA CORP FOR 149 MLN DLRS IN CASH




BOEING <BA> TO ACQUIRE DEFENSE ELECTRONICS FIRM
    SEATTLE, June 1 - 
Boeing Co and ARGOSystems Inc <ARGI.O> said they reached an agreement
for Boeing to acquire the Sunnyvale, Calif., defense electronics firm
for about 275 mln dlrs. The boards of both companies have approved the
merger, which will be accomplished through a tender offer by a Boeing
subsidiary of 37 dlrs a share cash for all of ARGOSystems' shares, the
companies said. Under the agreement, the Boeing subsidiary, TBC
Holdings Corp, will begin the tender offer promptly. If at least 90
pct of the shares are not tendered, the offer will be prorated to 49
pct, the companies said. ARGOSystems has granted Boeing an option to
buy 1,238,311 shares or 18.5 pct of the outstanding stock for 37 dlrs
a share, they said. Also, Bill May, chairman of ARGOSystems, and three
other officers have granted Boeing an option to buy their shares,
another 8.9 pct of the outstanding stock, for 37 dlrs a share.
ARGOSystems makes equipment to monitor and analyze military
communications signals, electronic warfare equipment to monitor and
jam radar signals and signal processing systems. For the nine months
ended March 31, 1987, ARGOSystems reported earnings more than doubled
to 6.3 mln dlrs or 95 cts a share from 3.1 mln dlrs or 46 cts. The
year-ago period included a 2.2 mln dlr charge from a writedown of
securities. Sales rose 23.5 pct to 70.9 mln dlrs. Sales are expected
to exceed 100 mln dlrs for the fiscal year ending June 30, the
companies said in a joint statement. The company's backlog is
currently more than 180 mln dlrs, they said. It has about 1,200
employees. About 30 pct of ARGOSystems' business comes from
international customers. "ARGOSystems is a clear leader in its field.
This association will expand our overall activities and significantly
enhance our ability to compete in the defense electronics area,"
Boeing president Frank Shrontz said in a statement. ARGOSystems will
operate as a wholly owned subsidiary of Boeing Co. The merger
following the tender offer will be subject to approval by ARGOSystems
shareholders, the companies said. The tender offer and merger are
subject to customary conditions and expiration of the Hart-Scott-
Rodino notification waiting period, they said. Reuter 

N.Y. TIMES <NYT> TO BUY GWINNETT DAILY NEWS
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
The New York Times Co said it had an agreement to buy the Gwinnett
Daily News, an evening newspaper published in Lawrenceville, Ga.,
Terms were not disclosed. The company said Gwinnett has a weekday
circulation of about 27,500 and a Sunday circulation of about 30,900.
The New York Times also said Gwinnett County, a northeast suburb of
Atlanta, is the fastest-growing county in the country. The purchase
agreement includes the Forsyth County News, published on Wednesday and
Sunday and the Winder News, a weekly, among other publications. Reuter


TELEX CORP TO INVESTIGATE ALTERNATIVES TO TLX PARTNERS BID, MAY SEEK OTHER PURCHASERS




MARCADE GROUP INC <MAR> BUYS EUROPE CRAFT
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
Marcade Group said it had agreed to buy Europe Craft Imports Inc for a
combination of cash and common stock. The company said Europe Craft
designs, imports and distributes menswear and sportswear under the
Member's Only brand name. The company said Europe Craft had sales of
70 mln dlrs last year. Marcade said this latest deal is part of an
ongoing acquisition phase. Reuter 

FED APPROVES CITICORP PURCHASE OF SOME ASSETS OF SEARS
CALIF. THRIFT




ARDEN GROUP <ARDNA.O> PLANS ISSUER TENDER
    LOS ANGELES, June 29 - 
Arden Group Inc said it filed a registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission covering two issuer tender offers.
It said one offer its directed to its class A common stock holders and
another to holders of its 8-1/4 pct debentures due March 1, 1989. The
planned offer for common stock holders calls for the company to
exchange either 30 dlrs in cash, or 35 dlrs principal amount of 13 pct
subordinated debentures due September 1, 1997, or one share of a new
class B common stock, for each class A share held, Arden Group said.
It also said the cash payment is subject to proration. In addition,
the company said it plans to offer to exchange one dlr principal
amount of 13 pct debentures due September 1, 1997 for each outstanding
one dlr principal amount of 8-1/4 pct debentures. Reuter 

NATIONAL BEVERAGE TO ACQUIRE FAYGO
    FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., April 9 - 
<National Beverage Corp> said it agreed to acquire privately held
Faygo Beverages Inc for an undisclosed amount of cash. The company
said Detroit-based Faygo, a soft drink maker, has annual revenues of
more than 100 mln dlrs. National Beverage, which is also privately
held, owns and bottles Shasta Beverages, Spree All Natural Beverages
and private label brands in its 11 bottling facilities in the United
States. Reuter 

CABLE AND WIRELESS TO MERGE TWO H.K. UNITS INTO NEW TELECOMMUNICATION OPERATION




CONTEL <CTC> UNIT SALES SEEN BY ANALYSTS
    NEW YORK, June 29 - 
Contel Corp's telecommunications equipment unit is the most likely
candidate for sale by the Atlanta-based telecommunications company,
Wall Street analysts said. "Executone is at the top of the list," said
one analyst, referring to Contel's loss-riden telecommunications
equipment unit. "The question is, who would take it?" he added. The
company, forecasting a 15 pct drop in 1987 operating earnings over
last year, said late today that it is reviewing all operations in an
effort aimed at "maximizing long-term stockholder value." Analysts
also said Contel's federal systems division, which has been hit with
several executive defections, may also be put on the block. Contel
officials declined to comment on the possibility of selling any
operations. However, the company indicated in a statement that it was
closely evaluating the telecommunications and federal systems units.
Reuter 

COMPUTER ASSOC. <CA> BOLSTERS HAND AGAINST IBM
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Computer Associates International Inc's 800 mln dlr merger with Uccel
Corp <UCE> will eliminate its strongest rival, but the company still
faces stiff competition from International Business Machines Corp
<IBM>, Wall Street analysts said. "IBM is still the ruling force in
mainframe systems software," said Scott Smith, an analyst with
Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette. "But the combination of the two
companies will clearly present a much stronger front," he said.
Besides IBM, "Computer Associates will be far and away the most
powerful company in the field," added E.F. Hutton analyst Terence
Quinn. That field is a segment of the market known as system
utilities, or software packages that boost the productivity of a
company's data processing facilities by increasing the speed, power
and efficiency of large mainframe computers. The merger of Uccel and
Computer Associates combines the two biggest systems utilities
suppliers other than IBM. Analysts said the remaining players are
mostly small firms that will find the competition much harder than in
the past. For Computer Associates, the merger with Uccel caps a six-
year acquisition campaign that has vaulted the Garden City, N.Y.-based
company to the top of the software industry. When the deal is
completed sometime in August, the company's revenues will exceed 450
mln dlrs, pushing it past Microsoft Corp <MFST> as the world's largest
independent software vendor. Computer Associates founder and chairman
Charles B. Wang took the company public in 1981, and since then he has
bought 15 companies and boosted annual sales from 18.5 mln to 309.3
mln dlrs for the year ended March 31. Liemandt took charge of Wyly,
sold off its non-computer businesses and decided that it would focus
solely on mainframe computer software. In 1984, the company was
renamed Uccel Corp. Liemandt, who said he will leave the company after
the merger is completed, also turned to acquisitions for growth. On
the last day of 1986, Uccel completed the buyouts of six companies for
a total of about 60 mln dlrs. For 1986, it earned 17.0 mln dlrs, or
1.01 dlrs a share, on sales of 141.5 mln dlrs. The agreement took
industry analysts by surprise, largely because the companies had been
such bitter rivals. Also, Dallas-based Uccel had engineered a strong
comeback from the dark days of 1982, when, as Wyly Corp, it lost 7.7
mln dlrs, or 56 cts a share. At that time, Wyly owned a potpourri of
13 different businesses, only three of which were involved in computer
software. In 1983, Walter Haefner, a Swiss financier and a major Wyly
investor, lured Gregory J. Liemandt away from his job as chairman of
General Electric Co's <GE> computer services unit. Computer
Associates' Wang and Uccel's Liemandt said at a news conference that
the merger would give computer users a single source for a wide range
of software products. In addition to system utilities, Computer
Associates also sell products for microcomputers, while Uccel has made
inroads in the applications software market, where analysts said it
has been successful with accounting and banking systems. Wang said
Computer Associates would continue to support and enhance both
companies' product lines, but noted that the company will eventually
weed out duplicate offerings. He said about 20 pct of the companies'
products overlap. Analysts said the merger would dilute the holdings
of current Computer Associates shareholders by about 10 pct. But they
joined Wang in forecasting that the deal will not dilute Computer
Associates' earnings for the current fiscal year. Quinn of E.F. Hutton
said Wang has a proven track record of completing acquisitions without
earnings dilution. Therefore, he said he would not change his 1988
earnings estimate of 1.05 dlrs a share. Wang said he would look
closely at the combined operations of the two companies and cut
duplication in sales, marketing and research and development. Analysts
said Computer Associates paid a premium for Uccel. Based on Friday's
closing price, the company will swap 47.50 dlrs worth of its stock for
each Uccel share, which is nearly 33 times Uccel's 1987 estimated
earnings of 1.45 dlrs a share. Stephen T. McClellan of Merrill Lynch
Research said most software companies are currently valued at about 20
times per-share earnings. But the analyst said Uccel was worth the
premium because of its earnings potential and customer base. Wang said
Haefner, the Swiss investor, would hold about 25 pct of Computer
Associates stock after the merger. He currently owns 58 pct of Uccel.
The executive said the merger would not alter his target of
maintaining sales and earnings growth of 30 pct to 35 pct. In
addition, he said he expects no problems in having the deal cleared by
the antitrust division of the U.S. Justice Department. Uccel's
Liemandt declined to say what he will do after the merger, but he did
not rule out working together with Wang. Reuter 

SPIE BATIGNOLLES COULD INCREASE COMSTOCK HOLDING
    PARIS, April 8 - 
Construction group <Spie Batignolles> is negotiating to increase its
holding in U.S. Engineering and electrical installations firm
<Comstock>. Spie Batignolles, a subsidiary of Schneider SA <SCHN.PA>,
said in a statement it was negotiating to invest 20 mln dlrs in
Comstock in the form of bonds convertible into shares. Spie
Batignolles has held a 20 pct stake in Comstock since February 1986. A
spokesman said if Spie Batignolles converted all the new bonds, it
could open the way for the French company to take control of Comstock
but he gave no other details. Reuter 

LIBERTY FINANCIAL ANNOUNCES MERGER WITH EQUIMARK
    HORSHAM, Pa., June 18 - 
Liberty Financial Group Inc, the parent of Liberty Savings Bank said
it has signed a definitive agreement to be acquired by Equimark Corp
<EQK>, the parent of Equibank, for 48 dlrs a share of Liberty. The
transaction is structured as a merger of Liberty with a duly-formed
unit of Equimark, the company said. Liberty shareholders will receive
about 48 dlrs per share uopn the merger, the company said. According
to the companies, the acquisition is contingent upon the approval of
Liberty's shareholders and the appropriate regulatory authorities.
Liberty said the acquisition of its unit, Liberty Savings Bank, by
Equimark Corp, will result in the bank operating as a separate wholly
owned unit of Equimark. Charles Cheleden, chairman and president of
Liberty Financial and Liberty Savings, will continue as president and
chief executive officer of Liberty Savings, headquartered in Horsham,
Pa., the company said. Liberty said it feels that the price of 48 dlrs
in cash per share is attractive and that it has advised by Shearson
Lehman Brothers that the price is fair. Reuter 

NCNB <NCB> TO MERGE WITH (CENTRABANK)
    CHARLOTTE, N.C., June 2 - 
NCNB Corp said the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System
approved its application to merge with (CentraBank Inc) of Baltimore,
expected to be completed July 1. The company said the board's approval
included the dismissal of a protest by the Baltimore-based Maryland
Alliance for Responsible Investing against NCNB's performance under
the Community Reinvestment Act. The company said Maryland Alliance
wanted the merger blocked on the grounds that NCNB inadequately served
the credit and financial needs of low-income and minority communities
in its markets. The company said it denied the claim. Reuter 

CRAZY EDDIE <CRCY.O> WON'T OPPOSE SLATE
    EDISON, N.J., Oct 19 - 
Crazy Eddie Inc said its board will not oppose the slate of nominees
proposed for election to the board by the committee led by
Entertainment Marketing Inc <EM> and the <Oppenheimer-Palmieri Fund,
LP.> Crazy Eddie said its board is not endorsing, but will simply
refrain from opposing, the EMI-Palmieri nominees. The board also said
it will ask representatives of the Committee to Restore Shareholder
value to begin acquainting themselves with the business and affairs of
the company as promptly as possible. To that end, the committee's
representatives will be invited in advance of the annual meeting to
examine the company's financial records, to monitor its operations and
to join company officers in meetings with the company's suppliers,
bankers and key personnel, Crazy Eddie said. The board said that to
continue to oppose the EMI-Palmieri group would only increase the
expenses of the company, create further uncertainty among its
suppliers, customers and employees, and result in deterioration of
moral among company personnel. A further release from the company will
follow, it said. Reuter 

ERICSSON <ERICY.O> TO BUY REST OF SPANISH UNIT
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
L.M. Ericsson of Sweden said it agreed in principle to buy the 49 pct
of Intelsa, its Spanish unit, that it does not already own from
<Telefonica>, Spain's telecommunications administration. Terms of the
agreement were not disclosed. Ericsson said Intelsa, which controls
about 40 pct of the Spanish telephone switch market, has 2,400
employees and annual sales of 800 mln crowns, or 117 mln dlrs. "The
purchase will not affect the close working relationship between
Telefonica and Intelsa," Ericsson said. Reuter 

BARCO <BRC> BOARD APPROVES LEVERAGED BUYOUT
    GARDENA, Calif., June 19 - 
Bacro of California said its board approved an offer from its chairman
Kenneth Donner and President Michael Donner to purchase all the
outstanding Barco common shares at 5.05 dlrs per share in a leveraged
transaction. The Donners currently own about 44 pct of the company's
outstanding shares, Barco said. It also said vice chairman David
Grutman and family members, who own about 28 pct of Barco's shares,
have agreed to sell their stock for the offering price. Reuter 

SERVICE CORP <SRV> DUMPS CAPITAL SOUTHWEST STAKE
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
Service Corp International said its Investment Capital Corp unit sold
its entire 14.8 pct stake in Capital Southwest Corp <CSWC.O> common
stock, and no longer holds any Capital Southwest shares. In a filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Investment Capital said
it sold 280,000 shares of Capital Southwest common stock since
September 21 at 19.56 dlrs to 21.50 dlrs a share. No reason was given
for the recent sales. Reuter 

NATIONAL DISTILLERS <DR> TO SELL SPIRITS UNIT
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
National Distillers and Chemical Corp said it signed a definitive
agreement to sell its spirits division for 545 mln dlrs to James Beam
Distilling Co, a unit of American Brands Inc <AMB>. The sale of the
spirits division was made under the company's previously announced
plan to sell its spirits and wines businesses, it said. The wine
business was sold last month for 128 mln dlrs to Heublein Inc, part of
Grand Metropolitan PLC, National Distillers said. The purchase price
will be paid in cash, a National Distillers spokeswoman said. The sale
permits National to focus on its core businesses, chemicals and
propane marketing. Proceeds from the sale will be used to repay debt
and for other corporate purposes, the company said. In a separate
statement, American Brands said the sale would be for 545 mln dlrs
plus the assumption of liabilities. The sale would be subject to
compliance with the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and
other regulatory approvals, the company said. National's distilled
spirits business has sales of about 580 mln dlrs, American Brands
said. National's spirits brands include Gilbey's gin and vodka,
DeKuyper Liqueurs and Windsor Supreme Canadian Whisky. Reuter 

CRAZY EDDIE <CRZY> MAY MAKE ACQUISITION
    EDISON, N.J., April 13 - 
Crazy Eddie Inc said it is negotiating for the possible acquisition of
Benel Distributors Ltd, which operates Crazy Eddie Record and Tape
Asylums in all Crazy Eddie stores. It said the acquisition would
probably also include affiliate Disc-o-Mat Inc, which operates a
number of record and tape stores in the New York metropolitan area.
Other details were not disclosed. Reuter 





SAFEWAY AGREES TO SEVERANCE FOR DALLAS WORKERS
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
The United Food and Commercial Workers Union said unlisted Safeway Inc
has agreed to provide severance pay to about 5,000 workers in the
Dallas area resulting from the closure of a division last April. The
union said the total severance payment will be about five mln dlrs. It
said the division was closed as a result of 4.6 billion dlrs in debt
incurred from a leveraged buyout last year. The union said it filed
suit following the leveraged buyout to protect the claims of union
members. The leveraged buyout was implemented to ward off a bid by
Dart Group Corp <DARTA.O>. Reuter 

SICO <SIC.TO> TO BUY REICHOLD <RCI> UNIT ASSETS
     MONTREAL, June 19 - 
Sico Inc said it agreed in principle to buy the U.S. assets of
Reichold Chemicals Inc's Sterling Group, which manufactures electrical
insulation compounds and industrial resins and develops coatings for
the electronics industry. Terms were undisclosed. Sico said it
acquired Sterling Group's Canadian assets in February. It said the
U.S. acquisition adds about 15 mln dlrs to its annual sales volume.
Reuter 

CANADA'S WILSON HAS NO COMMENT ON DOME (DMP)
    OTTAWA, April 13 - 
Finance Minister Michael Wilson said it was too early to comment on
the tax implications of TransCanada PipeLines Ltd's 4.3 billion dlr
offer for Dome Petroleum Ltd. "The specific offer by TransCanada is
just in the course of being made and we don't have the details of all
the elements of the proposal," Wilson told the House of Commons daily
question period. Opposition parties were questioning Wilson about a
possible loss of tax revenue if the takeover was completed because of
the large tax credits held by Dome. Reuter 

HICKS/HAAS GROUP HAS SPECTRADYNE <SPDY.O> FUNDS
    DALLAS, June 1 - 
SPI Holding Inc, a group consisting of Hicks and Haas and Acadia
Partners LP, said it has received commitments for the senior bank
financing needed to complete its proposed acquisition of Spectradyne
Inc for 46 dlrs a share in cash or securities, or a total of about 452
mln dlrs. The transaction was conditioned on the arrangement fo
financing by today. It said it has also executed multi-year employment
and non-competition agreements with five Spectrayne senior managers.
Reuter 

MANAGEMENT GROUP HAS RESTAURANT <RA> MAJORITY
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Restaurant Associates Industries Inc said the management group led by
chairman Martin Brody and president Max Pine through October 16 had
received 1,796,727 Class A and 1,766,091 Class B shares in response to
its tender offer for all shares at 18 dlrs each, giving thema majority
of each class of shares. The company said the tender has been extended
until November 6. Reuter 

FLUOROCARBON <FCBN.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    LAGUNA NIGEL, Calif., June 1 - 
Fluorocarbon Co said it completed the acquisition of Eaton Corp's
<ETN> industrial polymer division. The company said it paid about 70
mln dlrs in cash for the division, which will be renamed Samuel Moore
Group. Fluorocarbon also said the division should boost annual sales
to 165 mln dlrs from last year's 98 mln dlrs. Reuter 

S.ATLANTIC <SOAF.O>, INDEPENDENCE <INHO.O> MERGE
    STAMFORD, Conn., April 13 - 
South Atlantic Financial Corp said it has agreed in principle to merge
with Independence Holding Co into a new company to be called SAFCO
International Ltd. It said each South Atlantic share would be
exchanged for one SAFCO share and each Independence share for 2.822
SAFCO shares. Independence now owns about 40 pct of South Atlantic's
9.8 mln primary common shares. South Atlantic said said its chairman
and chief executive officer Sheldon S. Gordon would have the same
posts with SAFCO and Independence president Ronald G. Strackbein would
be president of SAFCO. The company said the transaction is subject to
execution of definitive agreements, the receipt of fairness opinions
from investment banks and approval by boards and shareholders of both
companies. It said proxy materials are expected to be maioled this
quarter. Both South Atlantic and Independence are insurance companies.
Reuter 

<THERA-CARE INC> TO ACQUIRE CUSHING
    EL CAJON, Calif., April 13 - 
Thera-Care Inc said it agreed to acquire Cushing and Associates of
Glendale, Calif., in exchange for 1,480,000 Thera-Care shares. Reuter


FED ALLOWS CITICORP <CCI>, SEARS <S> THRIFT DEAL
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
The Federal Reserve Board said it approved Citicorp's application to
purchase through its subsidiary, Citicorp Savings of Oakland, Calif.,
some assets and assume some liabilities of Sears Savings Bank of
Glendale, Calif. Citicorp Savings proposed to assume two billion dlrs
in deposits and other liabilities and to purchase 1.9 billion dlrs in
assets of 50 branch offices of Sears Savings. The proposal involved
less than one third of the assets and liabilities of Sears Savings,
owned by Sears, Roebuck and Co <S>. The Fed said that it generally has
determined there were potentially adverse effects of allowing
affiliations of banks and savings and loan associations, although it
has allowed bank holding companies to acquire some failing thrifts. It
said Citicorp's proposal "properly may be viewed as the permissible
acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of S and L branches
rather than the acquisition of an S and L." Citicorp Savings, the
successor to the failed Fidelity Savings and Loan Association, has
assets of 4.9 billion dlrs and operates 86 branches in California,
mainly in the north. Sears Savings has 6.6 billion in assets and 91
branches predominantly in southern California. The application, which
was approved unanimously, will not eliminate Sears Savings as a
competitor, the Fed said. Reuter 

DIAMOND CRYSTAL <DSLT> MIGHT SELL SALT UNIT
    ST. CLAIR, Mich., April 9 - 
Diamond Crystal Salt Co said it might sell its salt division. The
company said it retained First Boston Corp to assist it with the
possible sale of the division, "assuming a fair price and reasonable
terms can be obtained." Diamond Crystal said sale of the unit was in
the best long-term interests of its shareholders. The company also
said it incorporated its Packet Products Division as of April one. The
unit will be an indirect wholly owned subsidiary called Diamond
Crystal Specialty Foods Inc. Current management of the division will
remain. Reuter 

NEW ENGLAND CRITICAL CARE <NECC.O> BUYS NPO
    MARLBOROUGH, Mass, June 19 - 
New England Critical Care Inc said it completed its purchase of NPO
Therapies Inc of Salt Lake City. The company said that NPO Therapies'
president and founder, Kelly Mutchie, has joined New England Critical
Care as regional vice president covering the western United States.
NPO Therapies provides home infusion therapy services. Reuter 

DOTRONIX <DOTX.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    NEW BRIGHTON, MINN, June 1 - 
Dotronix Inc said it completed the acquisition of Video Monitors Inc
for 3.92 mln dlrs. Video Monitors is a privately-owned Wisconsin-based
manufacturer of video display and and video monitor devices. Reuter 

CXR <CXRL.O>,TOROTEL <TRTL.O> TO SETTLE SUIT
    MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif, June 29 - 
CXR Telcom Corp and Torotel Inc agreed in principle to settle pending
litigation regarding the sale of Torotel's former Halcyon
Communications Inc unit to CXR in March, 1986, the two companies said
in a joint statement. The agreement calls for CXR to pay to Torotel
1,350,000 dlrs in exchange for return of a 2.5 mln dlr note and five
mln CXR common shares valued at 1,7754,000 mln dlrs, the companies
said. In June, 1986 CXR filed the suit in San Francisco federal court,
charging that the 10.3 mln dlr price it paid for Halycon was
excessive, Torotel said. It also said that in is suit CXR asked for
seven mln dlrs in damages, along with an unspecified punitive award.
Reuter 

MICROSEMI <MSCC.O> ACQUIRES HYBRID COMPONENTS
    SANTA ANA, Calif., June 19 - 
Microsemi Corp, a supplier of semiconductor products and assemblies,
said it has acquired the operating assets of <Hybrid Components Inc>
for 2.2 mln dlrs in cash. Microsemi said the purchase includes the
fixed assets, software, inventories, technology, intellectual
properties and other business operations of HCI. The company said HCI
will continue to operate its Beverly plant as a subsidiary of
Microsemi. Reuter 

BOEING <BA> STARTS ARGOSYSTEMS <ARGI.O> BID
    NEW YORK, June 2 - 
Boeing co said it has started the 37 dlr per share tender offer for
all shares of ARGOSystems Inc that it announced yesterday morning. In
a newspaper advertisement, the company said the offer, withdrawal
rights and proration deadline all expire June 30 unless extended. The
offer is not conditioned on receipt of any minimum number of shares,
Boeing said. If at least 90 pct of ARGOSystems' shares are tendered,
it said it will buy all shares, but if less than 90 pct are tendered,
it said it plans to buy only 49 pct in the offer. Boeing said if less
than 90 pct of ARGOSystems' shares are tendered, but the purchase of
all shares tendered along with the exercise of options it holds would
give it over 90 pct of ARGOSystems, Boeing may buy all shares
tendered. ARGOSystems has granted Boeing an option to buy up to
1,238,311 new shares or a 15.6 pct interest at 37 dlrs each, and
shareholders have granted Boeing an option to purchase up to 597,885
shares at the same price, or about 8.9 pct of those now outstanding,
without taking the company option into consideration. A merger at the
tender price that has been approved by the ARGOSystems board is to
follow the offer. Reuter 

SAN MIGUEL DEAL HIT BY MORE LAWSUITS
    MANILA, April 8 - 
A bid by San Miguel Corp (SMC) <SANM.MN> to buy back 38.1 mln
sequestered shares from United Coconut Planters Bank (UCPB) has been
hit by two new lawsuits, sources in the Philippine food and brewery
company said. A Manila court yesterday issued an injunction barring
UCPB from selling the shares, which represent 31 pct of SMC's
outstanding capital stock of 121 mln shares, until hearings on April
21 on a petition filed by Eduardo Cojuangco, a former chairman of both
SMC and UCPB. Cojuangco said the Coconut Industry Investment Fund
(CIIF) and 1.4 mln farmers were the rightful owners of the shares.
Cojuangco said the shares were held in trust by UCPB and represented a
blue chip investment. His petition said UCPB's plans to sell the
shares to SMC were "a serious breach of fiduciary duties." The SMC
sources said the proposed share sale could also be held up by a second
derivative suit filed before the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) by Eduardo de los Angeles, a government nominee on the company's
board. De los Angeles, who represents SMC's minority stockholders,
asked the SEC to block the transaction, approved last week by the
company's board. On April 2 the board sanctioned the repurchase of the
sequestered shares for 4.79 billion pesos at 126 pesos per share. De
los Angeles told the SEC the company's retained earnings of 1.33
billion pesos would be wiped out by the purchase of the shares and
would prevent the declaration of dividends. De los Angeles said the
share purchase would also violate an SMC agreement with its creditors
to maintain a 2.2-to-1 debt to equity ratio. He quoted SMC's chief
financial director Ramon del Rosario as telling the board that the
transaction would boost the ratio to 2.5-to-1. In petitioning the SEC,
de los Angeles amended an earlier suit two weeks ago in which he
charged SMC Chairman Andres Soriano III and nine other directors of
violating their duties. De los Angeles' earlier complaint related to
SMC assuming last December a 26.5 mln dlr loan contracted by SMC's
Hong Kong subsidiary <Neptunia Corp> for a down payment on the shares.
The loan assumption was again ratified by last week's board meeting.
An arbitration panel set up by President Corazon Aquino to resolve the
ownership issue is expected to submit its report by April 15. "The
amended suit filed by Eduardo de los Angeles is part of a continuing
attempt by certain elements, in complete disregard of the facts and
with questionable motives, to delay an early disposition of the
sequestered shares," San Miguel Corp said in a statement. "Coming as
it does, when San Miguel Corp and UCPB have reached agreement on the
price of the shares and the method of payment, this suit is in direct
contravention of the government's expressed desire to reach an
amicable settlement of the controversy by April 15," the statement
added. A San Miguel spokesman said he had no comment on Cojuangco's
court petition, adding: "Any statement coming from us might be
interpreted as adversarial." Meanwhile, Ramon Diaz, the head of a
government panel which sequestered the shares last year, said Soriano
was not eligible to buy the major portion of the shares because he was
a United States citizen. The sequestered shares are split into 24 mln
"A" shares, which can only be owned by Filipinos, and 14 mln "B"
shares which are available to foreign buyers. SMC sources said Soriano
personally was not among prospective buyers. They said the shares
would be purchased by the <A.Soriano> group of companies, SMC,
Neptunia and unnamed institutional investors. Soriano was named as one
of the buyers in a bid in March 1986 for 33 mln shares controlled by
UCPB. The sale was aborted when Diaz's Presidential Commission on Good
Government sequestered the shares on suspicion they were owned by
Cojuangco, a close associate of former President Ferdinand Marcos.
Cojuangco lives in self-imposed exile in the U.S.. The shares grew to
38.1 mln after a 15 pct stock dividend announced last June. "We have
no objection to Soriano buying the "B" shares," Diaz told Reuters.
"But everything is on hold now." The SMC spokesman said he did not
know if the controversy would be resolved before the company's annual
stockholders' meeting, scheduled for May 14. San Miguel Corp reported
sales revenue of 12.2 billion pesos in 1986, 11 pct above its 10.9
billion peso sales in 1985. It said unaudited net profit was in the
neighbourhood of 700 mln pesos, an increase of about 50 pct over 1985.
REUTER 

BOOTHE <BCMP.O> MAKES ACQUISITION
    SAN FRANCISCO, April 13 - 
Boothe Financial Corp, a diversified holding company, said it has
acquired the <Robert Half and Accountemps> franchises in New England,
including four offices in Boston and Eastern Massachusetts and one
office in Providence, R.I. Boothe said it previously announced the
purchase of <Robert Half International Inc> the franchisor of the
Robert Half and Accountemps offices in the U.S. The company said the
aggregate purchase price it paid for Robert Half International and the
franchises was about 59 mln dlrs. Reuter 

AMSOUTH BANCORP <ASO> SETS EXCHANGE RATIO
    BIRMINGHAM, Ala., April 13 - 
AmSouth Bancorp said it will issue about 3,166,000 shares of stock to
acquire First Tuskaloosa Corp. Under a previously announced merger
agreement, Amsouth offered 66 dlrs a share in Amsouth stock for First
Tuskaloosa. The company said First Tuskaloosa shareholders will
receive 1.978825 shares of Amsouth stock for each First Tuskaloosa
share held when the merger is effected April 17. First Tuskaloosa has
assets of more than 425 mln dlrs. Amsouth's assets are about six
billion dlrs. Reuter 

HENLEY GROUP SAID IT ENDED TALKS ON BUYING SOUTHERN PACIFIC FROM SANTA FE SOUTHERN 




PARTNERSHIP BUYS IPCO <IHS> STAKE OF 6.8 PCT
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
MP Co, a New York investment partnership, told the Securities and
Exchange Commission it bought a 6.8 pct stake in IPCO Corp common
stock. The partnership said it acquired 346,600 IPCO shares, paying
4.9 mln dlrs, because it believed the securities to be "an attractive
investment opportunity." It said it planned to regularly review its
investment and may in the future recommend business strategies or an
extraordinary corporate transaction such as a merger, reorganization,
liquidation or asset sale. The partnership is controlled by Marcus
Schloss and Co Inc, a New York brokerage firm, and Prime Medical
Products Inc, a Greenwood, S.C., medical supplies firm. Reuter 

BARCO DIRECTORS APPROVE BUYOUT OFFER FROM SENIOR
MANAGEMENT
 




INDUSTRIAL EQUITY TO MAKE PROPOSAL TO CALMAT<CZM>
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd, a Hong Kong-based investment firm
leading a group holding 19.1 pct of Calmat Co's common stock, said it
intends to submit to Calmat a proposal for a possible business
combination. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Industrial Equity (Pacific) did not disclose details of the proposal,
but said it would be delivered to Calmat in the near future.
Industrial Equity (Pacific) "does not intend to remain a passive
investor" in Calmat, the firm told the SEC. In its SEC filing,
Industrial Equity (Pacific) said its president of North American
operations Ronald Langley met with Calmat officials on October 14 to
discuss an acquisition of the company at a premium over the market
price of Calmat stock. Industrial Equity (Pacific) added it is
considering launching a tender offer for Calmat stock or making a
merger proposal to the company, but said it has not decided whether it
will pursue a Calmat acquisition on a non-negotiated basis. Industrial
Equity (Pacific), which currently holds 5.83 mln Calmat common shares,
said it is also evaluating the company's recently adopted shareholder
rights plan and its potential effect on Calmat and on possible
acquisition proposals made to the company. Between October 2 and 14,
Industrial Equity (Pacific) bought 918,900 shares of Calmat common
stock at 33 dlrs to 37.55 dlrs a share, or a total of about 33.8 mln
dlrs. Reuter 

WINN ENTERPRISES <WNN> UNIT SELLS DAIRY
    LOS ANGELES, April 9 - 
Winn Enterprises' Knudsen Foods Inc said it entered an agreement to
sell its Hawaiian dairy operations to Foremost Foods Inc for 13 mln
dlrs cash. The company said the purchase price is subject to
adjustment and the entire transaction is subject to approval by the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California. Reuter 

BANC ONE <ONE> MAKES INDIANA ACQUISITION
    COLUMBUS, Ohio, June 2 - 
Banc One Corp said it has completed the acquisition of First National
Bank of Bloomington, Ind, which has assets of 271 mln dlrs. Reuter 

MAGELLAN SETS MERGER WITH BALZAC INVESTMENTS
    DALLAS, June 18 - 
<Magellan Corp> said its shareholders approved the merger of Magellan
with <Balzec Investments Inc>, a privately held company based in
Dallas. Magellan, a company without operations that was formed to
acquire an operating entity, said it plans to engage in the
development and marketing of a battery charger product owned by
Balzac. Magellan did not disclose the terms of the agreement.
Following the merger, Balzac shareholders will hold 80 pct of the
outstanding stock of Magellan, the company said. Magellan said it will
be the surviving corporation following the merger. The companies said
they expect the merger will occur after the declaration of
effectiveness of an amendment to Magellan's registration statement
relating to its common stock purchase warrants and the underlying
shares. Reuter 

BRENT TO BUY LONRHO DIVISION, PROPOSES RIGHTS
    LONDON, June 29 - 
<Brent Walker Group Plc> said it had agreed to buy the group of
companies comprising Lonrho Plc's <LRHO.L> Metropole Casino Division,
together with a freehold in central London, for 121.55 mln stg.
Payment will be in cash on completion except for three mln stg payable
on December 1, 1988. Brent said it also proposed to raise about 126
mln stg net through the issue of 131.67 mln convertible shares at one
stg each. The shares can be converted between 1990 and 2002 at the
rate of four ordinary shares for every 15 convertibles held. On full
conversion, the issued ordinary share capital of the company would
increase by some 64 pct. <Birdcage Walk Ltd>, a company controlled by
the Walker family, owns 20.68 pct of the shares and is entitled to
27.2 mln convertible shares under the offer. The trustees had
indicated that it intended to sell enough of the convertibles, nil
paid, to enable it to take up the remainder. Brent would buy the
casino companies and the freehold of 45, Park Lane in London. Under
the arrangements, it would also arrange for the repayment of 6.45 mln
stg in inter-company debt. Brent Walker shares firmed sharply on the
announcement to 385p from 353p at Friday's close, while Lonrho also
firmed, to 275p from 265.5p. REUTER 

GAF CORP SAID MANAGEMENT GROUP TO RECONSIDER ACQUISITION PROPOSAL




CHRYSLER <C> HAS NO PLANS TO RAISE BID
    DETROIT, June 19 - 
Chrysler Corp said it has no intention of increasing its offer for
Electrospace Systems Inc <ELE>. Chrysler agreed to purchase the Texas-
based defense electronics contractor in a tender offer of 27 dlrs a
share for a total value of about 367 mln dlrs. Eletrospace shares
closed yesterday on the NYSE at 30-1/8. "We have no intention of
increasing the offer," a company spokeswoman said. "We believe it is
adequate and will be accepted." She said the proposed transaction was
unanimously recommended by the board of directors and principal
shareholders of Electrospace. Further, she noted that the 27 dlrs
tender offer price is 50 pct above the price of Electrospace's shares
before April 30 when it put itself up for sale. Reuter 

COLONIAL BANCGROUP <CLBGA> MAKES ACQUISITION
    MONTGOMERY, Ala., April 9 - 
Colonial BancGroup said it has signed letter of intent to acquire
Community Bank and Trust of Hartselle, Ala., with assets of 26 mln
dlrs, for undisclosed terms, subject to approval by regulatory
authorities and Community Bank shareholders. Completion is expected
within the next year, it said. Reuter 

KRAFT <KRA> COMPLETES FROSTEX ACQUISITION
    GLENVIEW, Ill., June 29 - 
Kraft Inc said it completed the acquisition of Frostex Foods Inc for
undisclosed terms. Kraft said last month it had signed a letter of
intent to acquire the Austin, Texas-based foodservice distributor.
Reuter 

SERVICE RESOURCES <SRC> ENDS SORG <SRG> BID
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Service Resources Corp said it has withdrawn and terminated its 23 dlr
per share takeover offer to Sorg Inc because Sorg failed to respond to
the bid. It said, as Sorg's largest single shareholder, it will
evaluate all its options, including making a further offer to Sorg or
disposing of some or all of its Sorg shares. Reuter 

PAN AM <PN> SETS PACIFIC SATELLITE STAKE SALE
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
<Johnson Geneva U.S.A.> said it has agreed to buy Pan Am Corp's 50 pct
holding in their joint venture company, Pan Am Pacific Satellite Corp,
for undisclosed terms. Johnson Geneva said Pan Am divested owership in
the project as part of a corporate restructuring plan, but will
continue to provide engineering services on a contract basis. Johnson
Geneva said the buy out was accomplished through <Onpraise Ltd>, a
Hong Kong company controlled by Johnson Geneva Chairman Michael
Johnson. Funds have been provided by Onpraise to increase the
satellite company's working capita. Reuter 

WAL-MART <WMT> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    BENTONVILLE, Ark, June 29 - 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc said it has completed the acquisition of <Super
Saver Warehouse Inc> and Super Saver is now a wholly owned unit of
Wal-Mart. Reuter 

GULF AND WESTERN <GW> UPS INTEREST IN NETWORK
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
USA Network, today said it has acquired Time Inc's <TL> one-third
interest in the network. The network, formerly a joint venture between
Time, Gulf and Western Inc and MCA Inc <MCA>, said that Gulf and
Western and MCA, who each previously held a one-third interest, now
will jointly own USA Network on a 50/50 basis. Terms were not
disclosed, USA Network said. USA Network is an advertiser-supported,
entertainment basic cable network, reaching 39 mln homes on 8,500
cable systems. Reuter 

ALLIED-SIGNAL <ALD> COMPLETES SALE OF MPB CORP
    MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., June 1 - 
Allied-Signal Inc said it completed the sale of its MPB Corp unit to
Bearing Acquisition Corp for 145 mln dlrs plus assumption of certain
MPB liabilities. Headquartered in Keene, N.H., MPB designs and makes
precision ball and roller bearings used in aerospace, ordnance and
computer applications. Allied-Signal said the unit had 1986 sales of
over 90 mln dlrs. It noted the sale to newly formed Bearing
Acquisition was announced May 18. Allied-Signal said Bearing
Acquisition is a newly-formed corporation owned by an investors group
organized by Harold S. Geneen and Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette
Securities Corp. Wells Fargo Bank provided senior debt financing to
Bearing Acquisition and Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette provided bridge
financing in the form of subordinated notes, preferred stock and
common stock in an amount sufficient to fund the purchase price,
Allied-Signal added. Reuter 

CAL FED INCOME <CFI> BUYS TWO SHOPPING CENTERS
    LOS ANGELES, Oct 19 - 
Cal Fed Income Partners L.P. said it has acquired two shopping centers
for a total price of 18.4 mln dlrs. The company said it bought Best
Plaza Shopping Center in Pleasanton, Calif., For 12 mln dlrs and
Bristol Place Shopping Center in Santa Ana, Calif., for 16.4 mln dlrs.
Reuter 

METRO AIRLINES <MAIR.O> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    DALLAS, June 19 - 
Metro Airlines Inc said it has agreed in principle to acquire
privately held Chaparral Airlines inc for 5,700,000 dlrs in cash.
Chaparral provides regularly scheduled service out of Dallas/Fort
Worth Regional Airport as an affiliated carrier of AMR Corp <AMR> and
had revenues in 1986 of 14.1 mln dlrs. Reuter 

C.O.M.B. <CMCO> MAKES ACQUISITION
    PLYMOUTH, Minn., April 9 - 
C.O.M.B. Co said it has acquired the principal assets of National Tech
Industries Inc and Telkom Corp, which are engaged in the sale and
telemarketing of consumer electronic merchandise and do business as
House of Imports and N.L. Industries respectively. The company said it
paid a total of 8,700,000 dlrs, including the assumption of
liabilities. National Tech had sales of about 23 mln dlrs for 1986, it
said. Reuter 

ENTERTAINMENT MARKETING SEEKS TO BUY CRAZY EDDIE FOR EIGHT DLRS A SHARE




DEL WEBB <WBB> UNIT SELLS JOINT VENTURE STAKE
    PHOENIX, Ariz., April 13 - 
Del E. Webb Corp said its Del E. Webb Properties Corp unit sold one-
half of its interest in the 224-acre Towne Meadows mixed-use
development near Mesa and Gilbert, Ariz., to Klukwan Inc, an Alaskan
native cooperative. Terms of the sale were not disclosed. Webb said it
had a one-half interest in the venture. Reuter 

THOMSON GRAND PUBLIC TAKES OVER THORN EMI'S AUDIOVISUAL
DIVISION - THOMSON




COMPUTER ASSOCIATES <CA> STARTS BPI <BPII> BID
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
Computer Associates International Inc said it has started its
previously-announced 1.92 dlr per share tender offer for all shares of
BPI Systems Inc. In a newspaper advertisement, the company said the
offer, which has been approved by the BPI board and is to be followed
by a merger at the same price, is conditioned on receipt of at least
1,813,742 shares. The offer and withdrawal rights expire May 15 unless
extended. In addition to shares sought in the tender, shareholders of
BPI owning 1,951,720 shares or 34.6 pct have agreed to sell their
shares to Computer Associates for the tender price. Reuter 

CYCARE SYSTEMS INC <CYCR> BUYS MEDTEC
    PHOENIX, Ariz, June 29 - 
CyCare Systems Inc said it bought Control Data Corp's <CDA> MedTec
unit for an undisclosed sum. The company said MedTec's new client base
could have a significant impact on long-term revenues, although it
expects a minimal positive impact on earnings in the next six months.
It said the assets purchased include processing agreements, software
maintenance contracts and the supporting software. Reuter 

CENTEL <CNT> COMPLETES SALE
    CHICAGO, June 2 - 
Centel Corp said it completed the sale of its water properties serving
8,000 customers in four southwestern Kansas communities to Central
Kansas Utility Co of Columbia, Mo. Terms were not disclosed. Reuter 

WOOLWORTH <Z> COMPLETING TENDER OFFER
    NEW YORK, Oct. 19 - 
FW Woolworth and Co said that 2,223,996 shares of Armel Inc's <AML>
common stock were tendered to and accepted for payment by Woolworth,
under the terms of the previosuly announced cash tender offer which
expired at 2400 midnight EDT on October 16. In addition, Woolowrth
said 137,367 Armel shares have been tendered subject to guaranteed
delivery. Woolowrth said as a result of the tender offer and options
which it has exercised to purchase Armel stock, FWW Acquisiton Corp, a
Woolworth unit, today expects to own about 91.75 pct of Amrel's
outstanding stock. Woolworth said the percent it owns does not include
583,650 Class A shares of Armel, which were tendered or will be
purchased pursuant to the options. As previuosly announced, FWW will
now proceed with the cash merger in which all shares of Armel, other
than those held by FWW or Woolworth, will be entitled to receive 7.75
dlrs per share. Woolworth said it expects to consummate the deal later
this year. Armel is a specialty retailer of a broad line of athletic
and leisure footwear, accessories and other sportswear. Reuter 

BASIX CORP <BAS> TO SELL UNIT TO CUBIC <CUB>
    NEW YORK, June 2 - 
BASIX Corp said it has agreed in principle to sell the stock of its
Automatic Toll Systems Inc subsidiary to Cubic Corp for about 26 mln
dlrs. The company said it would retain Automatic Toll assets worth
about nine mln dlrs to dispose of over time. The company said
completion of the transaction is subject to approval by both boards
and BASIX's banks and the expiration of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting
period. Reuter 

SETON <SEL> DIRECTORS APPROVE MERGER AGREEMENT
    NEWARK, N.J., June 29 - 
Seton Co said its board of directors unanimously approved an agreement
and plan of merger providing for the merger of Seton with a unit of S
Acquisition Corp, a New Jersey company. Seton said its board of
directors unanimously approved the merger in a meeting held today.
Seton said the agreement and plan of merger provides that all shares
of Seton Co common stock not held by S Acquisition Corp, or its units,
will be converted upon the merger into the right to receive 15.88 dlrs
per share in cash. Reuter 

GAF <GAF> TO PURCHASE UP TO 21 PCT OF STOCK
    WAYNE, N.J., Oct 20 - 
GAF Corp said its board has authorized the repurchase from time to
time of up to seven mln of its common shares, or about 21 pct, for
cash in open market purchases or private transactions. The company
said it repurchased 2,100,000 shares under an April authorization to
buy back up to three mln shares and authorization for further
repurchases under the old program has been withdrawn. Yesterday, GAF
said a group led by chairman Samuel J. Heyman has decided to
reconsider its offer to acquire GAF. GAF said a revised offer by the
group is still possible. Reuter 

ENTERTAINMENT MARKETING TOPS CRAZY EDDIE OFFER
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
A quickly growing Texas-based distributor of electronics products
offered 240 mln dlrs for Crazy Eddie Inc <crzy>, the leading New York
City electronics retailer, or one dlr per share more than its founder
has bid. The 8-dlr-a-share offer by Entertainment Marketing Inc <em>
for Crazy Eddie comes less than two weeks after founder Eddie Antar
and a firm controlled by the Belzbergs of Canada announced a bid to
take the 32-store Crazy Eddie chain private. Analysts said
Entertainment Marketing, whose revenues and profits quadrupled in
1986, may be looking to break into the highly competitive New York
City retail market for consumer electronics, the nation's biggest, at
a time the fortunes of electronics retailers have sagged. The analysts
questioned whether Houston-based Entertainment Marketing, founded by a
former electronics retailer but whose present buinesses are primarily
as wholesale distributors, had the management expertise for retailing
or was merely trying to drive up the price of the Crazy Eddie shares
it already owns. "I have mixed feelings," said analyst Dennis Telzrow
of Eppler, Geurin and Turner, a Dallas brokerage. "On the one hand
it's probably a cheap price. On the other hand, does Entertainment
Marketing have the management talent to run it and will the Crazy
Eddie people leave?" "It's a risky strategy for Entertainment
Marketing," said analyst Eliot Laurence of Wessels Arnold and
Henderson, a Minneapolis brokerage. "Electronics retailing is very
management concentrated; they'd want to keep Crazy Eddie's management
in place." Laurence said that, since Entertainment Marketing already
owns 4.3 percent of Crazy Eddie's 31.3 million shares, it may be
trying to get the Antar-Belzberg group to increase its 7-dlr-a-share
offer. Shares of Crazy Eddie, which have jumped from the high 4-dlr
range to above 7 dlrs since the Antar-Belzberg bid was announced May
20, rose another 50 cents Monday to 8.375 a share in over-the- counter
trading. Antar, the reclusive founder of the chain in the New York
City, Philadelphia and Connecticut areas, said last month that his
group controlled 14 percent of Crazy Eddie's shares. A Crazy Eddie
spokesman said the company's board has taken no decision on the Antar-
Belzberg offer, worth some 187 mln dlrs since they own more shares
than Entertainment Marketing. He would not comment on the new offer.
Entertainment Marketing sells computer products such as disk drives
and other, often discounted electronics goods to retailers, primarily
in the southwest, and directly to consumers by cable television. In
fiscal 1986, ending last January, its revenues rose to 87.9 mln dlrs
from 21.3 mln dlrs the previous year. Net profit went to 3.2 mln dlrs
from 750,000 dlrs in 1985. Entertainment Marketing, whose chief
executive officer, Elias Zinn, once ran an electronics retailing
business, said in a statement it had committed 50 mln dlrs toward the
purchase of Crazy Eddie and had retained Dean Witter Reynolds Inc to
assist in financing the balance. Analyst Telzerow estimated that the
company would have to borrow about 100 mln dlrs to complete the
proposed buyout since Crazy Eddie has cash and other assets worth
about the same amount. Shares of Entertainment Marketing were up 12.5
cents Monday to 9.50. Reuter 

A.H. ROBINS SAYS RORER GROUP MERGER PROPOSAL MERITS
FURTHER CONSIDERATION




PIOSEC <PIO.AL> ACQUIRES SEMICONDUCTOR STAKE
    VANCOUVER, B.C., May 31 - 
Piosec Technology Ltd said it exchanged 4.5 mln common shares for 21
pct of privately owned <Alliance Semiconductor Corp> of Santa Clara,
Calif. Followin the acquisition, a Piosec spokesman said, the company
has 6.5 mln shares outstanding. Reuter 

HANSON <HAN> TO BUY INT'L PROTEIN <PRO> STOCK
    FAIRFIELD, N.J., April 9 - 
International Proteins Corp said it has agreed to sell in a private
placement 330,000 common shares at 11.75 dlrs a share to a U.S.
subsidiary of Hanson Trust Plc. In addition, David Clarke the
president of another Hanson Trust subsidiary, Hanson Industries, will
be named chairman of International Proteins's executive committee upon
his election to the board at the annual meeting. International
Proteins recently acquired Clarke's family business, Great South Beach
Sales Co, for 900,000 restricted common shares of which 350,000 have
been issued to date. International Proteins said its agreement with
Hanson Trust is subject to stockholder approval at the annual meeting
which is expected to be held in June. The company said Hanson Trust is
purchasing the stock for investment purposes, adding the agreement
includes restrictions on purchase or sale of the company by Hanson for
the next five years. International Proteins said it will use the
proceeds to expand domestic operations. The company has about 2.1 mln
shares outstanding. Reuter 

DILLARD DEPARTMENT STORES AGREES TO BUY TWO ALLIED STORES UNITS FOR 255 MLN DLRS CASH




FIRST CITY INDUSTRIES SELLS YALE AND NUTONE UNITS FOR 400 MLN DLRS AND SECURITIES




BASTIAN TECHNOLOGIES SAYS IT HAS FIVE PCT OF COSMO COMMUNICATIONS, MAY SEEK CONTROL




EDELMAN GROUP CUTS BURLINGTON <BUR> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
New York investor Asher Edelman and Dominion Textile Inc <DTX.T>, who
are currently seeking to acquire Burlington Industries Inc in a
hostile tender offer, said they lowered their stake in the company. In
a filing with the Secruties and Exchange Commission, the
Edelman/Dominion group, known as Samjens Acqusition Corp, said it sold
options to buy 258,800 Burlington common shares, reducing its stake in
the company to 3,408,813 shares, or 12.33 pct, from 3,667,313 shares,
or 13.3 pct. The group said the sale, which represented all the
Burlington options it owned, was made May 28 for 8.7 mln dlrs. The
Edelman/Dominion group last week sweetened its hostile tender offer to
77 dlrs a share, after Burlington agreed to a leveraged buyout by a
Morgan Stanley and Co-backed group for 76 dlrs a share. But the
Edelman/Dominion group, which has litigation pending against
Burlington, also said it has held talks with Morgan Stanley about "the
possibility of settlement of outstanding matters among" it, Morgan
Stanley and Burlington. Reuter 

WEDGESTONE REALTY <WDG> ACQUISITION APPROVED
    NEWTON, Mass., April 8 - 
Wedgestone Realty Investors Trust said shareholkders have approved the
acquisition of its advisor, Wedgestone Advisory Corp, for 600,000
shares. It said completion is expected to take place April 10. Reuter


ALLIED STORES <ALS> SELLS DILLARD <DDS> TWO UNITS
    New York, April 13 - 
Dillard Department Stores Inc, based in Little Rock, Ark., and Allied
Stores Corp jointly said they entered a definitive purchase agreement
for the sale to Dillard of the Joske's and the Cain-Sloan divisions of
Allied for 255 mln dlrs cash, subject to certain closing adjustments.
The sale excludes certain real estate assets of Joske's and Cain-
Sloan, which Allied estimates have an aggregate value of 30 mln dlrs
based on current market conditions. Joske's has 26 stores in Texas and
one in Arizona. Cain-Sloan has four stores in Nashville. Joske's is
the largest unit Allied has slated for sale in its restructuring.
Allied Stores Corp, a subsidiary of Campeau Corp, was acquired by
acquired by the Canadian developer last year. Robert Campeau, chairman
of Allied, said "this is a terrific start to our disposition program
which is proceeding well ahead of schedule. This sale will fulfill the
requirements under our bank agreements to sell certain assets by June
30 and give us additional flexibility in the disposal of the remaining
divisions being sold." Allied Stores is required to pay 200 mln dlrs
in bank debt by June 30. There had been some doubts on Wall Street
that the company could meet the payment. A Campeau source said, "We
believe this cash sale puts us in a very strong negotiating position
to maximize the proceeds Allied can receive from its other divisions."
"Allied was able to put itself in a position where it knows it will be
able to meet the June 30 payment schedules," the source said. About
1.1 bilion dlrs in Allied assets had been targeted for sale by Dec.
31, 1988 to pay for the aquisition of Allied by Campeau. Allied will
be taking bids for its other divisions. Targeted for sale are Bonwit
Tellers, Garfinckel's, Dey's, Donaldson's, Herpolsheimer's, Heer's,
Miller's, Miller and Rhoads, Pomeroy's, Catherine's, Plymouth Shops,
and Jerry Leonard. The divisions provided 38.4 pct of Allied net sales
and 11.8 pct of store profit in fiscal 1985. Reuter 

TAFT BROADCASTING <TFB> COMPLETES STATION SALE
    VIRGINIA BEACH, Va., April 9 - 
TVX Broadcast Group Inc <TVXG> said it has completed the previously-
announced purchase of five Taft television stations. Last week, TVX
said the sale, which was scheduled to close then, had been delayed.
Taft said the purchase price was 240 mln dlrs, as previously
announced. The price is subject to final adjustments, Taft said. Taft
did not indicate the size of the gain, if any, it would post on the
sale. It said the stations are WTAF-Philadelphia, WDCA-Washington,
WCIX-Miami, KTXA-Dallas and KTXH-Houston. Reuter 

FIFTH THIRD <FITB.O> TO MERGE WITH C AND H
    CINCINNATI, Oct 19 - 
Fifth Third Bancorp and <C and H Bancorp> said they reached a
preliminary agreement to merge. C and H Bancorp has assets of 257 mln
dlrs and is the parent company of Citizens Heritage Bank N.A. The
companies said the agreement calls for each of the about one mln
shares of C and H Bancorp to be exchanged for one share of Fifth Third
Bancorp. Based on its financial expectations, Fifth Third said the
dilution in per share earnings for the merger will be negligible.
Reuter 

MR. ROOTER <ROOT.O> RESCINDS UNITED WESTERN PACT
    OKLAHOMA CITY, June 18 - 
Mr. Rooter Corp said it rescinded a recent agreement calling for
<United Western Energy Corp> to to buy a majority of Mr. Rooter's
stock for four dlrs a share. The company said it has also demanded
repayment of a 150,000 dlr loan made to United Western. Since
announcing the agreements, Mr. Rooter said, it discovered additional
information relating to United Western and the unaffiliated privately
held corporation which had guaranteed all of United Western's
obligations under the agreements. Mr. Rooter said the agreements were
rescinded d"in light of this additional information," without
providing details. It said talks are in progress with United Western
with regard to the repayment terms of the loan. Reuter 

JUSTICE OPPOSES QUICK GREYHOUND-TRAILWAYS MERGER
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
The Justice Department said it asked the government to proceed
cautiously on a plan allowing the nation's two largest intercity bus
companies to merge their operations, a move one of the firms said may
derail the deal. Justice's opposition to quick federal approval of a
bid by Greyhound Lines Inc to take immediate control Trailways Corp
prompted Greyhound to threaten -- in a brief filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission (ICC) -- to drop the merger plan. Greyhound
officials told Reuters late today the company hoped for ICC action on
the merger by tomorrow. "Greyhound Lines will go forward with the
transaction only if it is permitted to assume immediate, unconditional
control of Trailways' operations and to integrate them with its
operations," Greyhound said in a filing with the ICC, the federal
regulatory agency which has the final say over mergers of interstate
bus companies. But Justice had said in an earlier filing with the ICC
that it wanted the agency to move slowly on the plan and to turn down
Greyhound's request to begin operating Trailways immediately. "The
department has just begun to receive relevant information on
Trailways' financial condition and is in the process of assessing the
correctness of the company's allegations," acting Assistant Attorney
General Charles Rule said in comments submitted to the ICC. Greyhound
announced June 19 that it wanted the ICC to let it begin operating
Trailways immediately while continuing to evaluate the merger for
possible antitrust problems. Greyhound said it would pay 80 mln dlrs
for many of Trailways' terminals, buses and garages. The two companies
said in papers filed with the ICC that Trailways "could collapse in a
matter of days." They said Trailways owed suppliers more than six mln
dlrs, with another six mln dlrs due June 30. The suppliers, they said,
could force Trailways into bankruptcy "at any time." Trailways also
owes a consortium of banks 76 mln dlrs, and the consortium has
threatened to call the loan if Trailways fails to pay the interest due
June 30, they said. Reuter 

CRANE <CR> ACQUIRES ASSETS OF MARLEY UNIT
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Crane Co said it acquired certain assets of Chicago Heater Co Inc, a
wholly owned subsidiary of the <Marley Co>. The terms of the
transaction were not disclosed. Chicago Heater will be intergrated
with Crane's Cochrane Environment Systems division, the company said.
Reuter 

ITALY'S AGIP PETROLI BUYS STAKE IN U.S. COMPANY
    ROME, June 2 - 
State oil firm Agip Petroli Spa said it has acquired a 50 pct stake in
Steuart Petroleum Co, an independent U.S. Oil products company.
Financial terms were not disclosed. Agip Petroli, a subsidiary of
state energy concern Ente Nazionali Idrocarburi, said in a statement
that the remaining 50 pct of the U.S. Firm is owned by Steuart
Investment Co, a holding company that also operates in the sectors of
transportation, hotels and insurance. The Italian firm said Steuart
Petroleum operates primarily on the East Coast. REUTER 

DINNER BELL <DINB.O> LEVERAGE BUY OUT DROPPED
    DEFIANCE, Ohio, Oct 20 - 
Dinner Bell Foods Inc said the talks concerning a proposed leveraged
buy-out of the company have been terminated. A spokesman said the
group led by Joseph F. Grimes II, a director of the company, and B.
Rober Kill has withdrawn their proposal to acquire the company's stock
for 23.50 dlrs a share. The company also said its board determined the
previously postponed annual meeting will be held on January five.
Reuter 

WICKES <WIX> COMPLETES PURCHASE
    SANTA MONICA, Calif, June 2 - 
Wickes Cos Inc said it has completed the purchase of Dura Corp for an
undisclosed amount. Dura, a supplier of automotive equipment, had
annual sales of over 100 mln dlrs. Reuter 

STANDARD OIL SAYS BRITISH PETROLEUM SHARE TENDER EXTENDED UNTIL MAY 4




HILLSDOWN BUYS BEDDING COMPANIES FOR 23 MLN DLRS
    LONDON, April 13 - 
Hillsdown Holdings Plc <HLDN.L> said its Christie-Tyler Ltd unit would
buy the European bedding making interests of Simmons Co U.S.A., Owned
by Gulf and Western Industries Inc USA <GW>, for 23 mln dlrs. The
acquisitions include <Sleepeeze Ltd> in the U.K., <Compagnie
Continentale Simmons SA> in France and <Compagnia Italiana Simmons
SpA> in Italy. In 1986 the three businesses made pre-tax profit of
around 2.5 mln stg on sales of 39 mln stg. Net assets being acquired
come to around nine mln stg. Hillsdown shares were unchanged at 266p.
REUTER 

<RESER'S FINE FOODS INC> TO GO PRIVATE
    PORTLAND, Ore., Oct 20 - 
Reser's Fine Foods Inc said certain directors and officers, who
currently represent about 85 pct of the company's stock, plan to take
Reser's private through a cash buyout. The company said the group
plans to offer 12.50 dlrs per share for the 15 pct of its stock
currently outstanding. Reuter 

GUINNESS COMPLETES UNIT SALES WORTH 232.6 MLN STG
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
Guinness Plc <GUIN.L> said it has completed the sale of subsidiaries
<Martin CTN Group Plc> and <Drummonds Pharmacy Group Plc>. Total
consideration was 232.6 mln stg, subject to adjustment on final audit,
which is expected to add 12 mln stg, Guinness said. Martins has been
sold to <Panfida Ltd> an Australian investment company, and Drummonds
to <Macarthy Plc>. Reuter 

BALTEK <BTEK.O> BUYS ECUADORIAN PLANT
    NORTHVALE, N.J., Oct 19 - 
Baltek Corp said it has acquired a shrimp packing plant in Ecuador for
undisclosed terms. The company said the acquisition will result in a
tripling of its Ecuadorian shrimp sales to about three mln pounds
annually by 1988. Reuter 

TRACE PRODUCTS <TRCE.O> MERGER AGREEMENT SUSPENDED
    SAN JOSE, Calif., - 
Trace Products Inc said its stock-swap merger agreement with privately
held Central Point Software has been suspended indefinitely because of
uncertainty in the stock market. Trace Products, which manufactures
diskette and tape duplication equipment for software publishers, had
earlier agreed to acquire Portland, Ore.-based Central Point for 5.5
mln shares of its common stock. Reuter 

CABLE AND WIRELESS RESTRUCTURES H.K. UNITS
    HONG KONG, Oct 19 - 
Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L> said its subsidiary <Hong Kong
Telephone Co Ltd> would cease to be a listed company, following the
restructure of the company's Hong Kong units. Earlier today the
company announced that Hong Kong Telephone and Cable and Wireless Hong
Kong, in which the territory's government has a 20 pct stake, would
become subsidiaries of a newly formed holding company, Hong Kong
Telecommunications. In exchange for the Cable and Wireless Hong Kong
capital, Hong Kong Telecommunications will issue 4.18 billion new
shares to Cable and Wireless Plc's Cable and Wireless (Far East) Ltd.
That subsidiary now holds the group's 80 pct stake in Cable and
Wireless Hong Kong and about 22 pct of H.K. Telephone. It will issue
an additional 1.05 billion shares to the goverment. That will leave
the Cable and Wireless group with an 80 pct stake in Hong Kong
Telecommunications, the government 11 pct and nine pct in public
hands. But that will be reduced early next year after a placement of
11 pct of the issued shares of Hong Kong Telecommunications by both
Cable and Wireless and the government. Reuter 

LYNCH <LGL> PLANS OFFER FOR BECOR <BCW> STOCK
    NEW YORK, June 2 - 
Lynch Corp said it will offer 10.50 dlrs a share in cash, 4.50 dlrs in
subordinated debentures and a 1/4 share in a new company for each
Becor Western Inc share outstanding. Lynch said its proposed offer
"substantially improves" over the offer of 10.45 dlrs a share in cash
and 4.00 dlrs of senior sinking fund debentures made by BCW
Acquisition Inc, formed by Becor's management. Lynch Chairman Mario
Gabelli, who heads a group which owns 12.35 pct of Becor's 16.5 mln
outstanding shares, said the Lynch bid "is about one dlr better than
the present offer." Gabelli previously said in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission he felt the Becor managment buyout
was unfar. The Lynch officer said he was invited by other Becor
shareholders to make an offer. Following sale of Becor's aerospace
subsidiary in February, the management group led by President William
Winter announced plans for a 238.1 mln dlr leveraged buyout. was
planning to take Becor for about 238.1 mln dlrs. A shareholder vote on
the buyout offer is scheduled for June four. Reuter 

AUSTRALIA'S ANSETT TO TAKE 20 PCT OF AMERICA WEST
    SYDNEY, June 18 - 
Australia's <Ansett Airlines> will exercise an option to acquire 20
pct of America West Airlines Inc <AWAL.O> for about 31.5 mln U.S.
Dlrs, <Ansett Transport Industries Ltd> managing director Peter Abeles
said. Exercise, involving the purchase of about three mln new America
West shares for 10.50 U.S. Dlrs each, was scheduled to be finalised in
July or August, he said in a statement. Abeles said Ansett would
become the largest single shareholder in what he said was the fastest
growing airline in the United States. America West is based in
Phoenix, Arizona. Under the terms of the option agreement, Ansett
would have the right to maintain its 20 pct position in the event of
future stock sales, but could not go beyond 20 pct unless so requested
by America West, Abeles said. America West would retain the right of
first refusal if Ansett offered any of the shares for sale. In
addition, Ansett would gain one board seat, he said. Ansett Transport
Industries wholly owns Ansett Airlines, one of Australia's two major
domestic airlines, and is in turn owned 50/50 by Abeles' international
transport group TNT Ltd <TNTA.S> and Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd
<NCPA.S>. REUTER 

TAKEOVER SPECULATION LIFTS HUTTON <EFH> SHARES
    New York, June 1 - 
E.F. Hutton Group Inc shares rose on speculation the company would
receive a takeover offer, traders said. Hutton's stock also was
affected by a newspaper report that First Boston Corp <FBC>
accumulated almost five pct of Hutton's stock on behalf of an outside
client, traders said. Traders said the story, which appeared in USA
Today, added speculation which began on the street last week. They
said there were rumors the stock was under accumulation and
speculation abounded the company would soon receive an offer. A Hutton
official declined comment. Hutton's stock rose 2-1/4 to 39-3/8. Hutton
several months ago rejected a buyout offer from Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc <SHE>. The newspaper story mentioned speculation American
Express Co <AXP>, the parent of Shearson, was a possible buyer. But
traders said the rumors today did not name buyers. First Boston
officials were not immediatley available for comment. Prudential Bache
analyst Larry Eckenfelder said he doubted the speculation about
American Express. He said he believed Hutton, which is occassionally
surrounded by rumors, moved up today as a result of the newspaper
article. "Hutton is still a takeover candidate," said Eckenfelder.
Reuter 

ENTERTAINMENT MAKES BUYOUT OFFER TO CRAZY EDDIE
    HOUSTON, Texas, June 1 - 
Entertainment Marketing Inc <EM> said it has made an offer to the
board of Crazy Eddie Inc to acquire all outstanding shares of Crazy
Eddie Inc for eight dlrs a share in cash. Entertainment said the offer
would be conducted through a negotiated merger with a new corporation
to be formed by Entertainment Marketing. Entertaiment said it has
requested an early meeting with Crazy Eddie Inc's board and that it
has committed 50 mln dlrs toward the purchase of the shares including
those already purchased. The company also said it has retained Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc to assist in raising the balance of the financing.
According to Entertainment, its company and its chairman own about 4.3
pct of Crazy Eddie's currently outstanding shares. Additionally, the
company said it is willing to negotiate all aspects of its offer and
is willing to consider a transaction which would be tax free to Crazy
Eddie's shareholders. Reuter 

BARNETT BANKS <BBF> FILES AGAINST FEDERAL BOARD
    JACKSONVILLE, Fla., June 19 - 
Barnett Banks Inc and Home Federal Bank of Florida said they filed a
suit against the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Savings
and Loan Insurance Corp. The companies said the suit asks a
Jacksonville, Fla., federal district court to enjoin the enforcement
of an interpretive rule adopted by the FHLBB last year which seeks to
give it jurisdiction over Barnett's proposed acquisition of Home. The
suit says this rule is arbitrary and capricious. Reuter 

PROTECTIVE LIFE <PROT> IN ACQUISITION
    BIRMINGHAM, Ala., April 9 - 
Protective Life Corp said it has signed a letter of intent to assume
<Liberty Life Insurance Co's> group insurance on July 1, subject to
regulatory approvals. Terms were not disclosed. Reuter 

CHEVRON <CHV> CUTS UNC <UNC> STAKE TO 8.4 PCT
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
Chevron Corp said it sold 4.6 mln shares of UNC Inc common stock on
June 15, leaving it with 1.4 mln UNC common shares, or 8.4 pct of the
total. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Chevron said it sold the shares for 11.88 dlrs each, or a total of
54.6 mln dlrs, under an agreement it had with UNC. The stock was sold
to an underwriting syndicate managed by Dillon, Read and Co Inc and
Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp, with the underwriters
paying 38.3 mln dlrs and UNC paying 16.4 mln, it said. Reuter 

BORDEN TO ACQUIRE PRINCE CO FOR ABOUT 180 MLN DLRS




CRA SOLD FORREST GOLD FOR 76 MLN DLRS - WHIM CREEK
    SYDNEY, April 8 - 
<Whim Creek Consolidated NL> said the consortium it is leading will
pay 76.55 mln dlrs for the acquisition of CRA Ltd's <CRAA.S> <Forrest
Gold Pty Ltd> unit, reported yesterday. CRA and Whim Creek did not
disclose the price yesterday. Whim Creek will hold 44 pct of the
consortium, while <Austwhim Resources NL> will hold 27 pct and
<Croesus Mining NL> 29 pct, it said in a statement. As reported,
Forrest Gold owns two mines in Western Australia producing a combined
37,000 ounces of gold a year. It also owns an undeveloped gold
project. REUTER 

CIRCLE EXPRESS TERMINATES PLANNED ACQUISITION OF OVERLAND EXPRESS




IRWIN JACOBS HAS GILLETTE <GS> STAKE
    New York, June 19 - 
Investor Irwin Jacobs said he has an investment in Gillette Co
amounting to less than five pct of the consumer products company's
stock. Jacobs, who made his comment in response to an enquiry, did not
comment further. Yesterday, Gillette rebuffed a takeover proposal from
Revlon Inc. Under an agreement between the two companies, Revlon must
have the permission of Gillette's board before making an offer to
shareholders. The board declined to grant that permission. Gillette
has been the topic of takeover speculation for several weeks. Its
stock has traded heavily, and arbitragers said they believe Jacobs may
not be the only investor who has a sizeable position in the company.
Reuter 

GENERAL PARTNERS SELLS GENCORP <GY> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
General Partners, a Texas partnership that recently ended its bid to
take over GenCorp Inc, told the Securities and Exchange Commission it
sold nearly all of its remaining 8.6 pct stake in the company. General
Partners said it sold 1,930,500 shares of GenCorp on April 10 at
118.25 dlrs a share in an open market transaction on the New York
Stock Exchange. It said the sale leaves it with 108 GenCorp common
shares. The partnership, which includes Wagner and Brown of Midland
Texas and Irvine, Calif.-based AFG Industries Inc, last week dropped
its 100 dlr a share hostile tender offer. Reuter 

UTILICORP <UCU> UNIT BUYS STAKE IN POWER PLANT
    KANSAS CITY, Mo., June 29 - 
Utilicorp United Inc said its UtilCo Group subsidiary completed the
purchase of a 38 pct interest in Westwood Energy Properties Limited
Partnership for about 10 mln dlrs. The company said the partership is
building and will operate a 30-megawatt electric generation facility
in Schuykill County, Penn., scheduled to begin commercial operation in
July. It said the 38 pct interest was sold by Westwood Funding Corp, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Combustion Engineering Inc <CSP>. Westwood
Funding retains an interest in the partership and serves as a general
partner, it said. Reuter 

CENTURY <CCC.O> TO BUY TO PUERTO RICAN CO
    NEW CANAAN, Conn., June 2 - 
Century Communications Corp said it had entered into an agreement to
acquire all the assets of <Community Cable Vision of Puerto Rico
Associates> and its associated companies for about 12 mln dlrs.
Century said it anticipates that <ML Media Partners LP>, which jointly
owns with Century a company called <Cable Television Co> of greater
San Juan, will join in acquisition and management of Community Cable.
Century said Community Cable is located in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Reuter 

HONG KONG FIRM UPS CALMAT <CZM> STAKE TO 12 PCT
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd, a Hong Kong investment firm, said it
raised its stake in CalMat Co to 3,712,860 shares, or 12.2 pct of the
total outstanding common stock, from 3,312,460 shares, or 10.9 pct. In
a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Industrial
Equity, which is principally owned by Brierley Investments Ltd, a
publicly held New Zealand company, said it bought 400,400 Calmat
common shares between April 9 and 13 for a total of 10.5 mln dlrs.
Reuter 

PROFESSOR LIFTS BANC TEXAS <BTX> PREFERRED STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
A University of Massachusetts finance professor said he raised his
stake in Banc Texas Group Inc to 45,340 shares of 1.4625 dlr
cumulative preferred stock, or 7.4 pct of the total, from 30,300
shares, or 5.0 pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Ben Shirley Branch also said he bought 52,025 shares of
Class A cumulative convertible preferred stock, or 5.9 pct of the
total, for 160,000 dlrs, bringing his total investment in both
preferred series to about 330,000 dlrs. Branch said he bought the
stock as an investment, but reserved the right to try to influence the
company. Reuter 

DRESSER INDUSTRIES INC TO SELL RELIANCE STANDARD LIFE INSURANCE TO ROSENKRANZ UNIT




CASCADE IMPORTERS UNIT ACQUIRES PARIS COMPANY
    WEST NYACK, N.Y., April 8 - 
<Cascade Importers Inc USA>'s Cascade International Europa GmbH of
West Germany, said it tentatively acquired worldwide rights for the
products of Madam Gre from the Bernard Tapie Group in Paris. The
agreement calls for Cascade to have the rights for the manufacturing
and trading of perfumes, skin care and treatment products, and
cosmetics of the group, it said. Cascade said the agreement also
includes the exclusive rights to trade through duty-free channels
worldwide the designer Gres accessories. In addition, Cascade said it
was granted an option to purchase all the assets including the plant
and equipment located in France. The company said the cosmetic product
line in the U.S. market alone could represent 20 mln dlrs in revenue.
Reuter 

USAIR <U> SAYS DOT PUBLIC COUNSEL BACKS MERGER
    WASHINGTON, June 18 - 
USAir Group Inc said the U.S. Department of Transportation's Office of
Public Counsel has urged that expedited non-hearing procedures be used
in its proposed acquisition of Piedmont Aviation Inc <PIE>. The
company said that America West Airlines Inc <AWAL.O> was the only
party voicing opposition to the acquisition. The Department of
Transportation had asked parties to submit statements by June 17
either supporting or opposing the acquisition. USAir said it and
Piedmont again requested expedited approval for the acquisition. The
company said the Office of Public Counsel could find no evidence that
the acquisition would substantially lessen competition in any market.
Reuter 

M.A. HANNA CO <HNM> TO ACQURE <PMS CONSOLIDATED>
    CLEVELAND, Oct 19 - 
M.A. Hanna Co said it has reached definitive agreement to purchase PMS
Consolidated, a privately owned manufacturer of colorants for the
plastics industry. M.A. Hanna said the purchase, which is subject to
certain conditions, is scheduled to close around the end of October.
Hanna announced last August that it was in negotiaitons to purchase
the company. Headquartered in Somerset, N.J., PMS reported over 70 mln
dlrs in revenues in its last fiscal year, which ended May 1987. Reuter


STANDARD OIL SAYS BP EXTENDS TENDER
    NEW YORK, April 23 - 
Standard Oil Co <SRD> said in a brief announcement issued after a
meeting of its board of directors that British Petroleum Co PLC <BP.L>
(BP) has extended its 70 dlr per share tender offer until midnight May
4. The offer for the 45 pct of Standard shares not owned by BP had
been due to expire midnight April 28. Standard Oil said discussions
with BP concerning the tender were continuing but provided no further
details. "So long as those discussions continue, no recommendation
will be made to Standard Oil shareholders regarding the offer,"
Standard said. Standard directors met at the company's Cleveland
headquarters on Thursday in a regularly scheduled meeting. The
spokesman was unable to say if the meeting would continue on Friday. A
committee of independent directors previously obtained an opinion from
First Boston Corp that the Standard shares were worth 85 dlrs each, 15
dlrs more than the BP offer. REUTER 

INVESTMENT FIRM RAISES TVX <TVXG.O> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 18 - 
WEDGE Group Inc, a Houston investment firm, said it raised its stake
in TVX Broadcast Group Inc to 682,419 shares, or 15.1 pct of the total
outstanding common stock, from 559,219 shares, or 12.4 pct. In a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, WEDGE said it
bought 123,200 TVX common shares at prices ranging from 8.00 to 10.625
dlrs a share. Reuter 

IDC SERVICES AGREES TO BE ACQUIRED FOR 16 DLRS A SHARE BY APOLLO PARTNERS GROUP




MICROWAVE LABORATORIES INC <MWAV.O> 4TH QTR NET
    RALEIGH, N.C., June 19 - 
April 30 end Shr 12 cts vs eight cts Net 316,655 vs 148,567 Sales
2,011,195 vs 1,422,719 Avg shrs 2,738,864 vs 1,881,296 Year Shr 43 cts
vs 49 cts Net 1,006,356 vs 918,290 Sales 7,059,446 vs 5,441,408 Avg
shrs 2,329,329 vs 1,881,296 Reuter 

UAL <UAL> HAS NO COMMENT ON STOCK RISE
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
UAL Inc, citing company policy, told the New York Stock Exchange it
would not comment on the unusual rise in its stock. UAL, parent of
United Airlines, closed up 6-1/4 at 72 on volume of 3.9 mln shares.
Wall Street traders said UAL's stock soared in response to the the
proposed 4.6 billion dlr buyout offer by United Air's pilots union and
on a general rise in air fares throughout the industry. Reuter 

REVLON GROUP AGREES TO MERGE WITH MACANDREWS AND FORBES GROUP FOR 20.10 DLRS/SHR CASH




VERNITRON <VRN> SETS RECORD DATE FOR MERGER VOTE
    DEER PARK, N.Y., June 29 - 
Vernitron Corp said it has set a new record date for shareholders
entitled to vote on the proposed merger of Vernitron Corp with SB
Holding Corp for July 10. Vernitron, which manufactures
electromechanical components and related products and services, said
it expects that a special meeting of shareholders will be held in
August. Vernitron said that SB Holding holds 55.2 pct in Vernitron,
resulting from a tender offer in November 1986. Reuter 

EXXON <XON> SOUTH AFRICAN UNIT ACQUIRED BY ZENEX
    JOHANNESBURG, April 9 - 
<Zenex Oil Pty Ltd> said it acquired the interests of Esso South
Africa, the local subsidiary of Exxon Corp <XON), and will use up to
20 mln rand in profits to finance educational and social programs. The
profit scheme will begin after Zenex has paid Exxon an undisclosed
purchase price for Esso, Zenex chairman John Truscott said in a
statement. The acquisition follows the Exxon withdrawal from South
Africa announced last December. Reuter 

WTC SHAREHOLDERS APPROVE PITTSTON <PCO> BUYOUT
    TORRANCE, Calif., June 29 - 
Pittston Co said WTC International N.V. shareholders approved the
acquisition of the company by Pittston. Terms of the transaction call
for Pittston to exchange 0.523 of its own common shares for each
outstanding WTC share, Pittston said. WTC is engaged in domestic
international air freight, ocean and surface freight forwarding and
consolidation and distribution services. Reuter 

CCX NETWORK <CCXN> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    CONWAY, Ark., April 13 - 
CCX Network Inc said it has entered into a letter of intent to acquire
privately-held <Modern Mailers Inc> and its affiliate <AnWalt Inc> for
about 3,200,000 dlrs in common stock. The company said Modern Mailers
had revenues of 8,600,000 dlrs for the year ended October 31 and
provides computer service, computer printing and lettershop
facilities. Reuter 

KRAFT <KRA> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    GLENVIEW, ILL., April 13 - 
Kraft Inc said it completed the acquisition of Holleb and Co, a
foodservice distributor based in Bensenville, Ill. Terms were
withheld. It said Holleb's 1986 sales were about 85 mln dlrs. Reuter 

HOME FEDERAL <HFBF.O> SETS SHAREHOLDER MEETING
    ST. PETERSBURG, Fla., June 29 - 
Home Federal Bank of Florida F.S.B. <HFBF.O> said it has scheduled a
special shareholders meetng for July 26 to approve proposed changes to
the bank's charter and merge with Barnett Bank Inc's Barnett Bank of
Pinellas County, N.A. Home Federal said the meeting is to approve a
definitive agreement signed May 26, calling for each share of Home
Federal's common stock to be exchanged for about 40 dlrs in market
value of Barnett common stock. The exchange would be based on
conversion of Home Federal shares of not less than 1.935 or more than
1.200 shares of Barnett stocks. At 40 dlrs a share, Home Federal said
the total market value of the transaction would be about 175 mln dlrs.
Home Federal said notice of the meeting and related proxy materials,
which has been filed previously with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Federal Home Loan Bank board, were mailed on June
26, to holders of record on June 15. Reuter 

CALMAT <CZM> SUES INDUSTRIAL EQUITY
    LOS ANGELES, Oct 19 - 
CalMat Co said it filed suit in Los Angeles Superior Court against
Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd, against certain of its affiliates and
against Ronald Langley, president of Industrial Equity's North
American operations. The company said its sut charges that Langley
missapropriated material non-public information acquired in his
capacity as a CalMat director and used the information for the benefit
of Industrial Equity. According to its more recent amendment to its
Schedule 13D, Industrial Equity owned about 19.17 pct of CalMat's
stock at October 14, CalMat said. It said Industrial has also stated
that it intends to pursue a possible business combination in the near
future. Reuter 

STIFEL FINANCIAL SAID IT RECEIVED UNSOLICITED MERGER
PROPOSAL





CSR SAYS IT IS RETAINING NON-DELHI GAS-OIL STAKES
    SYDNEY, April 9 - 
CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> said its sale of <Delhi Petroleum Pty Ltd> will not
affect the other oil and gas interests it manages or operates. CSR
sold Delhi, which holds an average 25 pct in the Santos Ltd
<STOS.S>-led Cooper-Eromanga Basin onshore gas and liquids joint
ventures, to an Exxon Corp <XON> unit for 985 mln dlrs on April 1. In
a statement to clarify the position, CSR said it will retain its Roma
Gas unit, the associated Roma-Brisbane gas pipeline and the Bula
oilfield on Seram, Indonesia, plus exploration interests in Queensland
and Hainan Island, China. REUTER 

IEP LIFTS ULTRAMAR AND OGELBAY NORTON STAKES
    WELLINGTON, June 30 - 
<Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd>, (IEP) the Hong Kong-listed unit of
Brierley Investments Ltd <BRYA.WE>, said it has lifted its stakes in
British oil company Ultramar Plc <UMAR.L> and U.S. Firm <Ogelbay
Norton Co>. IEP told the Stock Exchange it now holds 36.03 mln
Ultramar shares representing 13.07 pct of the issued capital. It holds
388,600 shares in Ogelbay representing 11.68 pct of the Delaware-based
company. No other details were available. REUTER 

INVESTOR GROUP DUMPS SILICON <SLCN.O> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
A group of Boston investors and investment partnerships told the
Securities and Exchange Commission it sold its entire stake in Silicon
Systems Inc of 410,000 shares, or 6.0 pct of the total outstanding.
The group, which includes HLM Associates, HLM Associates II and their
three general partners, said it sold the stock between April 22 and
June 9 at 9.00 to 9.125 dlrs a share as the result of an investment
decision. Reuter 

LIBERTY FINANCIAL SAYS IT AGREES TO BE ACQUIRED BY
EQUIMARK FOR 48 DLRS PER SHARE




MEDIA GENERAL SAYS GIANT GROUP, AFFILIATES HAVE 9.8 PCT OF CLASS A COMMON STOCK




ICAHN DROPS BID FOR TWA <TWA>
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
Trans World Airlines Inc said chairman Carl C. Icahn has withdrawn his
proposal to acquire the TWA shares he does not already own due to the
deterioration in market conditions. Under the proposal Icahn would
have paid for each TWA share 20 dlrs in cash and 25 dlrs face amount
of 12 pct subordinated debentures due 2007. TWA said Icahn reserves
the right to make a subsequent proposal at some future date on the
same terms or different terms. Reuter 

EQUITICORP HOLDING IN GUINNESS REACHES 59.93 PCT
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
Equiticorp Holdings Ltd <EQUW.WE> now owns or has received acceptances
representing 59.93 pct of the issued ordinary share capital of
Guinness Peat Group Plc <GNSP.L>, Equiticorp said in a statement.
Equiticorp's offer for Guinness Peat became unconditional on October
3, when it had 50.6 pct, and closed on October 17. REUTER 

ALLEGHENY <AI> SELLS THREE INDUSTRIAL UNITS
    PITTSBURGH, June 18 - 
Allegheny International Inc said it sold three of its industrial units
which served the railroad industry to <Chemetron Railway Products
Inc>, a senior management group of Allegheny. Terms of the transaction
were not disclosed. Included in the sale were Chemetron Railway
Products, True Temper Railway Appliances Inc and Allegheny Axle Co,
the company said. The three units include 12 plants throughout the
U.S., the company said. Reuter 

PHARMACONTROL <PHAR.O> ACQUIRES REVCO UNIT
    ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., June 1 - 
PharmaControl Corp said it acquired Private Formulations Inc from
<Revco D.S. Inc> for six mln dlrs in cash, a 13,550,000 dlr promissory
note and warrants to buy 200,000 PharmaControl common shares.
PharmaControl said the purchase price was financed, along with one mln
dlrs in working capital, through secured institutional financing. The
company said betweenm 11,550,000 dlrs and 12,550,000 dlrs f the
principal amount of the Revco note, plus accrued interest, is payable
June 30. The balance is payable over three years. PharmaControl said
it expects to make the payment due to Revco from proceeds of a
proposed offering of units consisting of convertible subordinated
debenturers and common stock currently on file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Upon closing of the public offering, the company
said, it expects the secured institutional financing to increase to a
total of 12 mln dlrs. Private Formulations is primarily engaged in the
manufacture and distribution of vitamins and private label over-the-
counter pharmaceutical products. Reuter 

STANADYNE <STNA.O> PURCHASES AMBAC STAKE
    WINDSOR, Conn., Oct 20 - 
Stanadyne Inc said it has acquired a substnatial majority of AMBAC
S.p.A.'s outstanding stock from <AIL Corp>, the successor to United
Technologies Corp's <UTX> Diesel Systems Division for undisclosed
terms. In addition to purchase a majority of the Brescia, Italy, based
company, Stanadyne said, it acquired a minority interest in AMBAC's
U.S. operation headquartered in Columbia, S.C. Reuter 

IC INDUSTRIES SAYS IT WILL CONSIDER POSSIBLE SALE OF ITS AEROSPACE BUSINESS




GROUP RAISES SCANDINAVIA FUND <SCF> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
A shareholder group consisting of foreign investment firms and
investors said it raised its stake in Scandinavia Fund Inc to
2,607,900 shares, or 40.0 pct of the total outstanding from 2,309,700
shares, or 35.4 pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the group also said it is considering an informal offer
made by Scandinavia Fund President Bjorn Carlson on March 31 which
would grant it representation on the company's board. The group
includes VBI Corp, a Turks and Caicos Islands investment firm, and
Ingemar Rydin Industritillbehor AB, a Swedish investment firm, and
Erik Martin Vik, a Norwegian investor, and Vik's son, Alexander. The
group said VBI and the elder Vik bought a combined 298,200 Scandinavia
Fund common shares since March 13 at prices ranging from 9.500 to
10.000 dlrs a share. Reuter 

ENERGAS <EGAS.O> TO BUY TEXAS AMERICAN <TAE>UNIT
    DALLAS, June 29 - 
Energas Co said it has agreed in principle to purchase Western
Kentucky Gas Co from Texas American Energy Corp for 61.5 mln dlrs in
cash plus assumptrion of certain liabilities. Western Kentucky is a
gas distribution company which serves about 143,000 customers in 108
towns and communities in Kentucky. Reuter 

KURZ-KASCH UPS STAKE IN COMPONENT TECH <CTEC>
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
Kurz-Kasch Inc, a Dayton thermoset molding maker, told the Securities
and Exchange Commission it had increased its holdings in Component
Technology Corp by two pct, to 9.3 pct. It said it bought the 39,000
shares of stock at 5.30-6.875 dlrs a share for investment purposes.
Reuter 

MERRILL TO GET 30 MLN DLR FEE IN BORG <BOR> DEAL
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
Merrill Lynch and Co Inc <MER> subsidiary seeking to take over of
Borg-Warner Corp said it could realize a 30 mln dlr fee for its
efforts, whether or not the deal, which it values at 4.7 billion dlrs,
succeeds. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Merrill Lynch Capital Partners Inc said it would receive a 30 mln dlr
fee from the surviving company for acting as dealer manager of the
merger after the Borg-Warner deal is completed. But it said it could
also receive a break-up fee of 30 mln dlrs if the deal fails for
reasons, which include another party holding more than 40 pct of its
stock or tendering for 50 pct. The 30 mln dlr fee is among the highest
set down in any tender offer agreement, either in compensation for
dealer manager services or for break-up of the deal. Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets, backed by a group of investors it organized, has
launched a 48.50 dlr a share tender offer for Borg-Warner for 90 pct
of its stock. The company's board has approved the plan, which was
intended to thwart an unsolicited offer from GAF Corp. Borg-Warner
also agreed to redeem all outstanding Series A preferred shares and to
pay off on all options at a 48.50 dlr a share exercise price before
the merger is effective, it said. Merrill Lynch said its
representatives discussed a possible leveraged buyout with Borg-Warner
as early as last December. At that time, Merrill Lynch told the
company it would consider a 43 dlr a share tender offer in cash and
securities, if the Borg-Warner board approved, it said. On Feb 24, it
said it was told the company had decided against a buyout. But talks
were revived after GAF launched its 46 dlr a share proposal on March
31, Merrill Lynch said. Unlike its earlier proposal, Merrill Lynch
said Borg-Warner management was asked not to take part in the new deal
and it was conditioned upon payment of the fees. In addition to its
fees, Merrill Lynch said it will also get up to 17 mln dlrs from Borg-
Warner to cover its expenses in the tender offer. Merrill Lynch said
it would continue operating Borg-Warner as a subsidiary with its
current officers keeping their positions. But for flexibility
purposes, Merrill Lynch said it is considering redistributing Borg-
Warner's assets to a number of subsdiaries of an entity it created to
carry out the merger. All in all Merrill Lynch estimated that there
would be 130 mln dlrs in fees and expenses connected with the deal.
Another 250 mln dlrs will be needed to repay certain debt of Borg-
Warner, Merrill Lynch said. To finance the deal, Merrill Lynch said it
expects to borrow 3.5 billion dlrs from a group of banks and sell 100
mln dlrs of common stock of the new company, sell 100 mln dlrs of non-
voting preferred stock of the new company to Merrill Lynch and Co,
sell up to 650 mln dlrs of subordinated notes to Merrill Lynch and Co
and sell to the public 204 mln dlrs of subordinated discount
debentures. GAF has raised its offer to 48 dlrs a share cash. Reuter 

FRENCH STATE SELL-OFFS RAISE 52 BILLION FRANCS
    PARIS, June 17 - 
The French government's privatisation program, which began late last
year, has earned the French State about 52 billion francs to date, the
Finance Ministry said. Sources close to Finance Minister Edouard
Balladur said the revenues raised from the privatisation program would
be used in priority to pay off public debt, which stood at 398.2
billion at the end of 1986. The Ministry said in a communique that the
returns included banking group Societe Generale <SGEN.PA>, which began
its two-week public flotation last Monday. The government has carried
out eight flotations, as well as the private sale of telephone group
<Cie Generale de Constructions Telephoniques> (CGCT) since its
denationalisation scheme began last December with the sell-off of
glass makers Saint-Gobain <SGEP.PA>, it added. The government has
pledged to privatise 66 state-owned industrial, banking and insurance
companies by 1991. Other companies to be sold to the private sector in
the near future are television network TF-1 later this month and
banking group Cie Financiere de Suez <FSPP.PA> in the autumn. The
ministry said TF-1's forthcoming sell-off meant that a third of the
government's programme would have been completed in less than nine
months. Balladur on Sunday rejected press and opposition charges that
the share prices for privatised companies had been pitched too low. He
said that the average premium of shares trading on the Bourse was
between 15 and 30 pct over their offer price. This compared with
premiums of between 60 and 80 pct on similar share flotations in
Britain. REUTER 

JWT GROUP <JWT> GRANTS GOLDEN PARACHUTES
    WASHINGTON, June 18 - 
JWT Group Inc disclosed in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission that it awarded so-called "golden parachutes" to 26 top
officers. The company said it granted the special bonuses, which take
effect only if an executive is fired within two years of a successful
takeover, on June 8. It granted 25 of the officials a severance
payment of just under three times their annual compensation if they
are fired after a takeover. For chairman Don Johnston, the payment was
limited to twice his annual compensation. JWT approved additional
lump-sum payments of one year's compensation to an unspecified number
of other highly paid company officials. The company also altered its
employee retirement and stock incentive plans, to assure continued
protection and benefits for employees in the event of a hostile
takeover. The company did not disclose the cost of the changes made in
the severance, retirement or stock plans. Reuter 

DOTRONIX INC <DOTX.O> TO BUY <VIDEO MONITORS>
    NEW BRIGHTON, Minn., April 13 - 
Dotronix Inc said it agreed in principle to buy Video Monitors Inc, a
privately-held company. In payment for the acquisition, Dotronix will
issue 312,500 unregistered shares of its common stock, notes worth 1.8
mln dlrs payable over three years, and about 70,000 dlrs in cash.
Dotronix said Video Monitors' sales for the fiscal year ended April
30, 1986, were 7.6 mln dlrs. Dotronix had income of 659,663 dlrs on
sales of 7.1 mln dlrs for the six months ended Dec. 31, 1986, as
previously reported. Reuter 

BANK OF CHINA BUYS SHARE IN LUXEMBOURG COMPANY
    PEKING, April 17 - 
State-owned Bank of China has bought a three to five pct share of BAII
Holding SA, a financial institution registered in Luxembourg, the
China Daily Business Weekly said. It said the institution is 50 pct
owned by Arab interests and has set up a wholly owned commercial
banking branch in Hong Kong but gave no more details. REUTER 

CENTEL <CNT> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    CHICAGO, April 9 - 
Centel Corp said it completed the acquisition of Welbac Cable
Television Corp, which serves more than 2,500 cable television
subscribers in east central Michigan. Terms were not disclosed. With
the addition of Welbac customers, Centel Cable Television Co of
Michigan serves more than 83,000 customers. Overall, Centel has nearly
495,000 customers in seven states. Reuter 

ALLIED-SIGNAL <ALD> SELLS TO SCHLUMBERGER <SLB>
    MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., June 29 - 
Allied-Signal Inc and Schlumberger Ltd jointly announced that
Schlumberger had acquired Allied-Signal's Neptune International unit.
Terms weren't disclosed. Atlanta, Ga.-based Neptune, which makes water
meters and flow measurement equipment, had sales last year of 80 mln
dlrs. Reuter 

Willis Faber says it making agreed 302.6 mln stg bid for
Stewart Wrightson




VERNITRON <VRN> SETS NEW RECORD DATE
    DEER PARK, N.Y., June 29 - 
Vernitron Corp said it has set a new record date of July 10 for
shareholders entitled to vote on the proposed merger of Vernitron with
<SB Holding Corp>. The original record date was May 26. Vernitron said
that it currently expects the special shareholder meeting concerning
the merger will be held in August. Following its tender offer in
November 1986, SB Holding holds 55.2 pct of Vernitron, a maker of
electromechanical components and related products and services. Reuter


CAROLCO PICTURES <CRC>, ORBIS IN AGREEMENT
    LOS ANGELES, June 29 - 
Carolco Pictures Inc said it signed a letter of intent to exchange 2.2
mln of its shares for all Orbis Communications Inc stock within the
next 60 days. It said the Carolco shares used in the exchange are
valued at 7.00 dlrs a share or a total value of 15.4 mln dlrs and will
be adjusted based on the price of Carolco shares on the closing date.
It said Orbis management will remain in place for at least three
years. Reuter 

SOCIETY/SAVINGS <SOCS.O> FORMS HOLDING COMPANY
    HARTFORD, Conn., June 1 - 
Society for Savings said it has completed a merger into newly formed
holding company Society for Savings Bancorp Inc on a share-for-share
basis. Reuter 

FEDERAL RESOURCES <FDRC.O> ACQUIRES RETAILER
    NEW YORK, June 29 - 
Federal Resources Corp said it has acquired the capital stock and
related real estate assets of <New Generation Inc>, a regional
consumer electronics specialty retailer. Terms of the acquisition were
not disclosed. New Generation has annual sales volume of about 30 mln
dlrs, Federal Resources said. Federal Resources said it will search
for additional acquisitions including, but not limited to, specialty
retailers. Reuter 

GROUP MAY SUPPORT CARDIS CORP <CDS> BUYOUT
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
A group of companies controlled by Brookehill Partners Inc told
government authorities it may support a buyout of Cardis Corp as a way
to maximize the value of the company's stock. In a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the group disclosed that it
currently holds a 5.5 pct stake in Cardis common stock, and said it
"would likely support" an acquisition of the company as a whole or in
parts by another party, terming such a move "the most likely means for
the company's shareholders to maximize the value of their investment."
Although the group characterized its Cardis stock holdings as
principally for investment, it said it intends to contact third
parties who might be interested in an acquisition of Cardis, a Los
Angeles-based auto parts distributor. The group added its has already
had "some contacts" with others concerning the company, but said no
understandings have been reached. "The (Cardis) common shares continue
to offer opportunity for price appreciation on the basis of the
company's asset value and earnings momentum," the Brookehill group
told the SEC. The group, which currently holds 318,900 Cardis common
shares, consists of New York-based Brookehill Partners and its two
subsidiaries, Brookehill Equities Inc, a brokerage, and Moore,
Grossman and deRose Inc, an investment advisor. Walter Grossmman, S.
Edward Moore and Robert deRose, all of New York, each own one-third
interests in Brookehill Partners. Since April 27, members of the
Brookehill group made net purchases of 6,000 Cardis common shares at
approximately 4 dlrs a share. The group told the SEC it may continue
to purchase additional Cardis stock, but also reserved the right to
sell its shares in the company. Reuter 

NETI TECHNOLOGIES <NETFC.O> SELLS SUBSIDIARY
    VANCOUVER, June 2 - 
Neti Technologies Inc said it has sold for over four mln dlrs U.S. in
cash, notes and the assumption of liabilities its Huron Leasing Inc
subsidiary to a group of investors headed by a former Huron executive.
The company said the transaction will yield about two mln dlrs in
cash, Huron sells, leases and services computer hardware. The
transaction is subject to approval by the Montreal and Vancouver Stock
Exchange and the arrangement of financing by June 15. Reuter 

GROUP LIFTS AIRLEASE <FLY> STAKE TO 15.1 PCT
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
A group of firms led by PS Group Inc <PSG> said it increased its stake
in Airlease Ltd depositary units representing limited partners
interest to 700,400 units, or 15.1 pct of the total outstanding, from
a previous figure of approximately 651,000 units, or 14 pct. In a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said it
bought 49,400 Airlease units between July 16 andf October 15 at 17.23
dlrs to 17.60 dlrs a share. No reason was given for the recent
purchases. Reuter 

CAMPEAU <CMP.T> UNIT TO SELL GARFINCKEL'S
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Campeau Corp said its Allied Stores Corp entered into a definitive
agreement to sell its Garfinckel's division to <Raleigh Stories Corp>
for 95 mln dlrs. The transaction is expected to close in July, the
company said. Garfinckel's net sales for fiscal 1986 were 111.9 mln
dlrs, the company said. Campeau said it expects to sell its remaining
Allied divisions in the near future. Campeau announced its first
agreement to sell an Allied unit in April, the company said. Reuter 

CYCLOPS <CYL> HOLDERS APPROVE DIXONS MERGER
    NEW YORK, June 29 - 
Dixons Group Plc said shareholders at a special meeting of Cyclops
Corp approved the previously announced merger of Cyclops with Dixons.
Under the terms of the merger, Dixons said the remaining public
Cyclops shareholders are to receive 95 dlrs a share. Dixons also said
the previously announced sale of Cyclops steel and nonresidential
construction businesses to a former Alleghany Corp <Y> subsidiary is
expected to be completed June 30. After the sale, Cyclops will retain
its specialty retailing business and change its name to Silo Inc, said
Dixons. Reuter 

VR <VRBB.O> CLOSES STOCK SALE TO VR ACQUISITION
    BOSTON, Mass., June 19 - 
VR Business Brokers Inc said it closed the sale of a controlling
interest in its comon and preferred stock to VR Acquisition Corp, a
Delaware corporation controlled by an investment group led by C. Robin
Relph of London. Under the agreement dated April 28, VR Business
agreed to sell 5,008,120 shares of common stock and 11,846 shares of
10 pct cumulative stock. VR Business said it issued 3,964,000 shares
of common stock and 11,846 shares of preferred stock, with the
remaining shares of common to be listed within the next week to 10
days. Reuter 

LADD <LADD.O> UNIT COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    HICKORY, N.C, June 1 - 
Ladd Furniture Inc's Clayton-Marcus Furniture subsidiary said it
completed the previously announced purchase of privately-held Colony
House Furniture Inc for an undisclosed amount of cash and notes.
Reuter 

SOUTHLAND <SLC> TARGETED IN SEC INVESTIGATION
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
Southland Corp said it was told the Securities and Exchange Commission
ordered a private investigation into Southland stock trading and
statements made by the company this year. "Southland has been advised
that the Commission has issued a private order of investigation
concerning the trading of Southland stock during various times in 1987
and the issuance of various public statements by Southland," Southland
said in a proxy statement to shareholders. Southland did not elaborate
on the SEC order of investigation, and company officials could not be
reached for comment late Tuesday. The SEC has a long-standing policy
against confirming or denying the existence of investigations. The
proxy statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, is
required for a November 5 shareholders meeting called to approve the
previously announced acquisition of Southland by a company controlled
by Southland chairman John Thompson and members of his family. Earlier
this year, a group led by Thompson acquired majority ownership of
Southland through a 77 dlrs a share tender offer for 31.5 mln shares
of Southland common stock. If the merger is approved, common stock
still outstanding will be converted into the right to receive 61.32
dlrs a share in cash plus a fraction of a share of preferred stock.
Reuter 

PAY N' PAK <PNP> GETS TWO OFFERS FOR COMPANY
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Pay N' Pak Stores Inc said it received two proposals in response to
its previously announced solicitation of potential buyers for the
company. The company said it is evaluating the proposals from Paul
Bilzerian and from a third party which is active in the leveraged
buyout field but which Pay N' Pak declined to identify. It said the
Bilzerian proposal calls for shareholders to receive on a blended
basis 16.67 dlrs in cash and 3.30 dlrs in liquidation value of
cumulative exchangeable redeemable preferred stock for each common
share. Pay N' Pak said the second proposal is structured as a merger
in which each holder would receive a combination of 17.50 dlrs in cash
and 2.50 dlrs in liquidation value of 13-1/2 pct cumulative preferred.
The company said the dividend on the preferred offered by Bilzerian
would be set so that in the opinion his financial advisor and the
company's financial advisor the preferred would trade in the public
market at its liquidation value. Dividends on the preferred could be
paid at the option of the surviving corporation in cash or additional
shares of preferred for the first five years, it added.. Pay N' Pak
said Bilzerian's proposal is subject to a physical inventory of
merchandise at June 30. Bilzerian did not provide details with respect
to financing of his proposal, which is not subject to a financing
condition. The company said dividends on the preferred being offered
in the second proposal would be paid in additional preferred in the
first three years and the preferred would be redeemed in years 12 and
13. It said the second offer is contingent on the arrangement of
financing, adding the party making the offer is confident of its
ability to obtain the balance of the financing. Pay N' Pak said the
second proposal is conditioned upon a satisfactory agreement with the
company's management regarding its equity participation in the new
company. The second party anticipates executing a letter of intent
when it delivers its financing commitment to the Pay N' Pak board that
would incorporate an expense reinbursement and option arrangement, the
company said. Reuter 

HOLLINGER <HLG.TO> COMPLETES UNIMEDIA TAKEOVER
    TORONTO, June 18 - 
Hollinger Inc said it completed the previously reported acquisition of
privately held Unimedia Inc, the owner of three French language daily
newspapers and four printing plants in Ontario and Quebec. The
company, which owns 58 pct of (Daily Telegraph Plc) said it named
former Carling O'Keefe Ltd chief executive Pierre Des Marais as chief
executive of La Societe Media Quebec, the unit acquiring Unimedia. It
said his appointment is effective July 2. Reuter 

RAVEN INDUSTRIES <RAV> BUYS TRUCK BODY BUSINESS
    SIOUX FALLS, S.D., June 1 - 
Raven Industries Inc said it purchased the utility truck body business
of (Astoria Fibra-Steel, Inc) for cash. Details of the transaction
were not disclosed. The Astoria product line, which has annual sales
of about 2.5 mln dlrs, will be manufactured and sold by Raven's newly
formed subsidiary, Astoria Industries Inc, Raven said. Its Glasstite
Inc subsidiary also manufactures and sells utility truck bodies.
Reuter 

CAMPEAU SAYS IT IS NOT PART OF SEC PROCEEDING
    NEW YORK, June 29 - 
<Campeau Corp> said it is not involved in the Securities and Exchange
Commission's administrative proceeding against Allied Stores Corp,
which Campeau acquired at the end of last year. In a statement, the
company said, "The SEC action involves events that occurred prior to
Campeau's acquisition of Allied relating to the alleged failure of
Allied to make certain disclosures. Consequently, Campeau is not
subject to the procedings." Reuter 

PHOENIX FINANCIAL <PHFC> BUYS DATA ACCESS STAKE
    BLACKWOOD, N.J., April 9 - 
Data Access Systems Inc said chairman David Cohen has sold 1,800,000
common shares to Phoenix Financial corp for undisclosed terms and
resigned as chairman and chief executive officer. The company said
Phoenix Financial now has a 27 pct interest in Data Access and
effective control. Data Access said Phoenix chairman Martin S.
Ackerman has been named chairman of Data Access as well and two other
Phoenix representatives have been named to the Data Access board. It
said four directors other than Cohen have resigned from the board.
Reuter 

FORSTMANN LITTLE AND CO SAID IT PLANS TO SELL SYBRON CORP UNIT




ROCHESTER <RTC> ACQUIRES <CANTON TELEPHONE CO>
    ROCHESTER, N.Y., June 29 - 
Rochester Telephone Corp said it completed the acquisition of Canton
Telephone Co and is now operating the company. Terms of the
acquisition were not disclosed. Canton Telephone serves about 2,900
access lines in northwestern Pennsylvania and had 1986 operating
revenues of about 1,300,000 dlrs, Rochester Telephone said. Reuter 

COMPUTER ASSOCIATES TO ACQUIRE UCCEL CORP FOR ABOUT 800 MLN DLRS




U.K. TREASURY CONFIRMS BP SALE TO GO AHEAD
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
The British Treasury confirmed that the sale of British Petroleum Co
Plc will go ahead as planned, despite Monday's stock market crash
which forced BP below the 330p a share set for the 7.2 billion stg
issue. "The government are not considering terminating the BP offer.
The offer has been fully underwritten," a Treasury spokesman said. The
issue, which remains open until October 28, was fully underwritten
last week when the issue price was set. BP shares closed down 33p at
317p as the FT-SE 100 share index crashed a record 249.6 points, more
than 10 pct. Reuter 

INSURANCE FIRM AS PIEZO <PEPI.O> PREFERRED STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
Corporate Life Insurance Co, a West Chester, Pa., insurance firm, told
the Securities and Exchange Commission it has acquired 44,600 shares
of preferred stock in Piezo Electric Products Inc, or 10.8 pct of the
total. Corporate insurance said it bought the cumulative convertible
preferred stock stake for 199,690 dlrs for investment purposes. Reuter


STAD ROTTERDAM TAKES STAKE IN SWISS-OWNED INSURER
    ROTTERDAM, June 2 - 
Dutch insurer Stad Rotterdam Anno 1720 N.V. <ASRN.AS> said from July 1
it will own 20 pct of the shares of <Europeesche Verzekering
Maatschappij N.V.>, a fully-owned unit of Swiss insurer <Union
Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft>. Stad Rotterdam chairman Lucas van
Leeuwen told Reuters it may raise its stake to a majority interest if
the two companies are found to be sufficiently compatible. Van Leeuwen
said that due partly to the fact Europeesche made losses in 1985 and
1986, the 20 pct stake was obtained at below the shares' intrinsic
value. He gave no precise sum. The Europeesche, which specialises in
travel and recreation insurance, had a premium income of 150 mln
guilders in 1986. Stad Rotterdam's premium income in 1986 was 1.17
billion guilders, making it the fifth largest Dutch insurer.
Europeesche made a loss of nine mln guilders in 1985, which narrowed
to 4.5 mln guilders in 1986, van Leeuwen said. He said the company was
on course for independent recovery and was expected to reduce its
losses further in 1987. REUTER 

UAL <UAL> MAY RESPOND TO PILOTS TODAY
    New York, April 8 - 
UAL Inc may have a response this afternoon to the pilots union
proposal to buy its United Airlines unit, a UAL spokesman said.
"Obviously, we have a lot of movement in our stock, and we need to get
a clarification out," the spokesman said, adding that there was a
"50-50" chance a statement would be released today. The pilots earlier
this week offered to buy the airline for 2.3 billion dlrs, and assume
2.2 billion dlrs of existing debt. Takeover speculation has driven
UAL's stock for several weeks. UAL last month said New York Real
estate developer Donald Trump held a position in its stock, and that
he also held discussions with its chairman. The developer indicated in
those talks that he took the position as an investment, but he
revealed no other plans. Today, rumors circulated that Coniston
Partners were buying UAL stock. UAL jumped five to 70-3/4 on volume of
more than 3.2 mln shares. "United has got to consider this proposal. I
think the pilot's proposal is realistic. I don't exptect them to take
it, but it could put some interesting options in front of UAL
management," said Timothy Pettee, Bear Stearns and co analyst.
Analysts have said UAL made itself vulnerable to attack when it
diversified away from its core airline. It added Hertz rental cars,
Westin and Hilton International hotels in a strategy to become a
travel service company. The strategy left its stock in a slump and its
pilots union concerned that the company was not focussing enough
attention on its airline. UAL has stood firm on its strategy. It is
emphasizing its new focus by changing its name to Allegis, as of May
one. But takeover speculation has escalated, and Wall Street has been
busy calculating break up values well in excess of 100 dlrs per share.
Traders today described the buying in UAL as widespread, indicative to
them that big institutions believe the stock is in play. Market
sources have said that although Trump attracted attention to the
stock, the pilots proposal acted as a catalyst, kicking off a new
round of speculation and perhaps throwing the company into the hands
of another buyer. "The first domino is you have an investor with a
considerable stake. the second domino is the union. That type of
attitude has been a precursor to airline deals in the past," said
Pettee. "What's interesting is the values are there. There's something
for everybody," he said. Reuter 

3M <MMM> ACQUIRES CONTROL DATA <CDA> UNIT
    ST PAUL, Minn., June 2 - 
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing said it acquired a computerized
hospital information systems business from Control Data Corp. Terms
were not disclosed. The business, which has 145 employees and supplies
computers and software for hospital information systems, will be
integrated into 3M's hospital software business. Control Data said the
divestiture was part of its strategy to focus on narrower markets.
Reuter 

UNION <UEL.TO> ENDS PACT TO SELL CANBRA <CBF.TO>
    TORONTO, June 29 - 
Union Enterprises Ltd said its agreement to sell its interest in
Canbra Foods Ltd to Macluan Capital Corp has been terminated. Union
said Macluan failed to make an offer for Union's 72 pct interest in
Canbra before the June 22 deadline. Union said it is no longer bound
by the agreement and is continuing to seek a buyer for the interest.
Reuter 

INTERSTATE BAKERIES <IBC>BUYS MEXICAN FOOD FIRM
    KANSAS CITY, MO., June 29 - 
Interstate Bakeries Corp said its Royal American Foods subsidiary
agreed to buy the assets of Landshire Food Products Inc, a New-Mexico-
based producer of packaged Mexican food products. Terms of the
proposed transaction were not disclosed. Reuter 

KINGSBRIDGE, MASCO SET MERGER
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Kingsbridge Holdings Ltd, said it signed a letter of intent for a
merger with <Masco Sports Inc>. The transaction calls for 230 mln
sahres of Kingsbridge common stock to be issued to shareholders of
Masco. Reuter 

NOVA CORP SAYS IT IS CONSIDERING A TAKEOVER BID FOR DOME
PETROLEUM




CORBY DISTILLERIES <CDL.TO> TO BUY HEUBLEIN UNIT
     MONTREAL, Oct 19 - 
Corby Distilleries Ltd said it has agreed to buy Toronto-based
McGuinness Distillers Ltd from Heublein Inc for about 45 mln dlrs in a
move which Corby expects to add significantly to domestic earnings.
Heublin is a subsidiary of Grand Metropolitan PLC (GMHL.L). Corby said
McGuinness will remain a seperate business unit with a seperate sales
force. McGuinness markets liquers, brandy, and other liquors and has
entered the fast-expanding wine cooler market, Corby said. Corby said
it expects to benefit from McGuinness's succesfull introduction of
schnapps and coolers and its strength in traditional market sectors.
Heublein said the sale does not include McGuinness's Calona Wines Ltd,
a Canadian wine company. Heublein said it is will still be represented
in Canada by Gilbey Canada Inc. reuter Reuter 

LADD FURNITURE <LADF.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    HICKORY, N.C., June 1 - 
LADD Furniture Inc said it has completed the previously-announced
acquisition of privately-held Colony House Furniture Inc for an
undisclosed amount of cash and notes. Reuter 

INVESTMENT FIRMS HAVE 7.7 PCT OF MIDWAY <MDWY.O>
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
Two affiliated investment firms told the Securities and Exchange
Commission they have acquired 593,000 shares of Midway Airlines Inc,
or 7.7 pct of the total outstanding common stock. The firms, Boston-
based FMR Corp and Fidelity International Ltd, a Bermuda-based
investment advisory firm, said they bought the stake "to acquire an
equity interest in the company in pursuit of specified investment
objectives...." The firms said they may increase or decrease their
stake in the company, but have no plans to seek control of the company
or representation on its board. Reuter 

CHASE ACQUIRES 370 MLN DLR REVOLVING CREDIT
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
The Chase Manhattan Bank, a unit of The Chase Manhattan Corp <CMB>,
said it acquired a portfolio of about 190,000 consumer revolving
credit accounts from Atlantic Financial Federal <ATLF.O> valued at 370
mln dlrs. The company said the acquisition makes Chase the second
largest issuer of credit card and other unsecured consumer credit
loans. Outstandings now exceed 5.6 billion dlrs, the company said. The
company said the portfolio, accessed by checks, is similar to Chase's
Advantage Credit product. Reuter 

EMPIRE <EMPA.TO> TO BUY SOBEYS <SYSA.TO> STOCK
    TORONTO, April 13 - 
Empire Co Ltd said it will acquire all shares of Sobeys Stores Ltd it
does not already own under an arrangement approved by directors of
both companies. Holders of Sobeys class A non-voting shares and class
B common shares may elect to receive either 1.6 non-voting class A
Empire shares or one non-voting class A Empire share and one-half of
an eight pct redeemable retractable preferred share. The preferred
share has a par value of 25 dlrs and is retractable at the holder's
option on May 1, 1994. Reuter 

PENGO <PGO> TO SELL SOME WIRELINE OPERATIONS
    FORT WORTH, Texas, June 18 - 
Pengo Industries Inc said it has agreed to sell its Wireline Products
Manufacturing Division in Fort Worth, Texas, Wireline Services
Division operations in several locations and Pengo International Inc
subsidiary to John Wood Group PLC for undisclosed terms. The company
said the Wireline Services operations being sold are in Lafayette,
Houma and Harvey, La., Alvin, Odessa and Longview, Texas, and Moore,
Okla. Pengo said its Kuykenball Slickline operation in Moore and
surplus wireline equipment operations in fort Worth and Cleburne,
Texas, will be sold separately. Reuter 

FIRM HAS 14.8 PCT OF DECISION/CAPITAL FUND<DCF>
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
Gabelli Group Inc said it and two subsidiaries held a total of 295,800
Decision/Capital Fund Inc shares or 14.8 pct of the total outstanding.
It said the shares were held on behalf of investment clients and it
said it had no intention of seeking control of the fund. Gabelli said
its most recent purchases of Decision/Capital Fund stock included
95,800 shares bought April 3-6 on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange.
Gabelli is an investment firm headquartered in New York City. Its
Gabelli and Co subsidiary is a brokerage firm. Reuter 

WELBILT <WELB.O> ACQUIRES FOOD HANDLING SYSTEMS
    NEW HYDE PARK, N.Y., Oct 20 - 
Welbilt Corp said it acquired <Food Handling Systems Inc> of Dallas, a
producer of commercial ovens, conveyers and proofer systems. Terms of
the transaction were not disclosed. Food Handling, which also produces
equipment for the commercial baking industry, was privately owned by
Richard Shumway of Mesa, Ariz., and Vic Ferrara of Dallas, both of
whom will remain with the company. The company has manufacturing
facilities in Dallas and Phoenix. Reuter 

GROUP RAISES COMPUTER MEMORIES <CMIN> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
A shareholder group led by Far Hills, N.J., investor Natalie Koether
said it raised its stake in Computer Memories Inc to 573,300 shares,
or 5.1 pct of the total outstanding, from 542,000 shares, or 4.8 pct.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group,
which includes Sun Equities Corp, an investment firm, said it bought a
net 31,300 Computer Memories common shares since March 31 at prices
ranging from three to 3-5/16 dlrs a share for "capital appreciation."
The group had earlier abandoned plans to seek control of the company
and lowered its stake to less than five pct. Reuter 

GOVERNMENT TO SELL 25 PCT OF AIR NEW ZEALAND
    WELLINGTON, June 18 - 
The New Zealand Government will sell 25 pct of state-owned <Air New
Zealand Ltd> to the public, Civil Aviation minister Richard Prebble
said. Prebble said in a statement the government would appoint an
adviser to help it decide how the shares should be sold, the timing of
any sales and the price. "Clearly there will be a need to gauge the
effect of other proposed share issues so as to enter the market at the
best opportunity," Prebble said. "We are in no particular rush to sell
our shares in Air New Zealand," he said. "Our aim is to maximise the
benefit to the taxpayer. If that means waiting for a while, then so be
it," Prebble said. He said Air New Zealand expects to release its
results soon for the year to March 31 1987. He said he was confident
it would post an excellent profit. Prebble said Air New Zealand was
successful but its ability to prosper in future was hampered by its
wholly-government-owned status. Prebble said access to new sources of
capital would increase its ability to expand and develop. This sale
announcement follows the public float in March of around 13 pct of the
<Bank of New Zealand Ltd>. The government has said it will also float
part of the capital of other state-owned operations, including <DFC
New Zealand Ltd>, formerly Development Finance Corp of New Zealand
Ltd, and Petroleum Corp of New Zealand Ltd. REUTER 

MURPHY OIL SAID IT PROPOSING TO ACQUIRE REMAINING 23 PCT
OF CANADIAN SUBSIDIARY




GEMINA HAS NO COMMENT ON AMBROSIANO REPORT
    Milan, April 9 - 
Holding company <Gemina Spa> said it had no comment on an Italian
press report today that it has acquired a 12 pct stake in <Nuovo Banco
Ambrosiano Spa>. Italian daily La Repubblica said that Gemina paid 205
billion lire for the shareholding from several Italian banks. A Gemina
spokeswoman told Reuters, "We have nothing to say about the report." A
spokeswoman for Milan-based Ambrosiano said, "We have no information
at this time." In February, Ambrosiano chairman Giovanni Bazoli said
foreign and domestic firms have expressed interest in buying stakes in
the bank. REUTER 

PERGAMON HOLDINGS REDUCES BPCC AND HOLLIS STAKES
    LONDON, April 9 - 
<Pergamon Holdings Ltd> and its associate companies said that they had
sold 30 mln ordinary shares in the British Printing and Communication
Corp Plc <BPCL.L> and 10.5 mln in <Hollis Plc> together with other
securities. No total price was given but the company said the proceeds
of the sales would be used to fund Pergamon's expansion programme and
worldwide acquisition stategy. The company said that following these
sales Pergamon's ordinary shareholdings in both BPCC and Hollis
remained above 51 pct. It said it had no intention of further reducing
its holdings in either company. REUTER 

ELDERS PURCHASE OF CANADIAN BREWER APPROVED
    SYDNEY, April 24 - 
Elders IXL Ltd <ELXA.S> said the Canadian government approved its bid
for <Carling O'Keefe Ltd>. Elders earlier announced it was buying 10.9
mln shares, or 50.1 pct of Carling, from the Canadian subsidiary of
Rothmans International Plc <ROT.L> for 18 Canadian dlrs each. Elders
chairman John Elliott said in a statement when the offer for the
ordinary shares closed on April 23, that acceptances representing over
93 pct of outstanding shares had been received. <IXL Holdings> would
proceed to acquire the rest compulsorily, he said. REUTER 

ALLEGIS'<AEG>WESTIN SETS NEWS CONFERENCE ON SALE
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Westin Hotels and Resorts, a subsidiary of Allegis Corp, said it will
hold a press conference on October 21 near San Francisco to discuss
the pending sale of the 61-hotel chain by Allegis. Allegis has said
that it plans to sell Westin buyt has not announced that a deal has
been set. Reuter 

BRITISH PETROLEUM COMPLETES STANDARD OIL MERGER
    LONDON, June 29 - 
British Petroleum Company PlC <BP.L> has completed its merger with
Standard Oil Co of the U.S. <SRD>, raising its holding to 100 pct from
55 pct, BP said in a statement. The acquisition was made through BP's
wholly-owned subsidiary <BP America Inc>. BP took a 25 pct stake in
Standard in 1970, raising its stake to 53 pct in 1978 and 55 pct in
1984. BP chairman Sir Peter Walters will be chairman of BP America,
while Robert Horton is to be vice-chairman and chief executive
officer, with Frank Mosier as president. BP said further details would
be released on July 21. Reuter 

GABELLI FIRMS HOLD 28.5 DIGIORGIO <DIG> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
A group of firms led by Gabelli Group Inc told government regulators
it holds a 28.5 pct stake in Digiorgio Corp common stock, and said two
partnerships making up part of the group may seek control of the
company. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Comission, the
group of firms said it holds 2,430,100 shares of Digiorgio common
stock. Of the total, 2,059,400 shares are held by GAMCO Investors Inc
and Gabelli Funds Inc. for investment purposes, the group said.
Gabelli-Rosenthal and Partners LP and G and R Partners, which hold the
remaining 370,700 Digiorgio common shares, told the SEC their "purpose
is to ultimately obtain control of Digiorgio contingent upon approval
of Digiorgio," according to the SEC filing. As previously reported,
Gabelli and Co Inc, acting as investment advisor to a group including
Gabelli-Rosenthal, proposed on June 25 to acquire all Digiorgio common
shares for a per share price of 20 dlrs in cash, a subordinated note
with a face value of eight dlrs, 14 pct redeemable preferred stock,
and one common share of the post-buyout company. The June 25 buyout
proposal, which remains open until July 17, also provides that key
members of Digiorgio management and some of its directors would be
invited to remain with the firm and participate in the group acquiring
the company. The proposal is also subject to a due diligence review,
execution of a merger agreement, arrangement of financing and receipt
of government approvals, all of which Gabelli and Co said could be
completed within 60 days. Between April 13 and June 26, the entire
group led by Gabelli Group Inc made net purchases of 403,600 Digiorgio
common shares at 22.20 dlrs to 26.79 dlrs a share. Reuter 

DURAKON <DRKN.O> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    LAPEER, Mich., Oct 19 - 
Durakon Industries Inc said it has entered into a definitive agreement
to acquire DFM Corp, a maker of bug and gravel protective shields for
trucks and cars, for an undisclosed amount of cash and debentures,
retroactive to September One. Reuter 

NIPPON STEEL DENIES CHINA SEEKING JAPANESE PLANTS
    TOKYO, April 8 - 
Nippon Steel Corp <NSTC.T> denied local newspaper reports that China
has been seeking to buy steel plants from Japanese firms which plan to
suspend output under the recently announced rationalisation program.
The Mainichi Shimbun quoted Nippon Steel as saying that China's State
Planning Commission and some Chinese firms have asked Japanese makers
to sell them steel works and rolling mills to expand steelmaking
cheaply. It named no sources. A Nippon Steel spokesman told Reuters
that China has made no such official request, and the company was not
considering such sales at the moment. But Mainichi quoted Nippon Steel
officials as saying if prices are reasonable, they would export their
used mills to China. The paper said China's crude steel output
totalled 52 mln tonnes in calendar 1986 and that it plans to increase
to 80 mln by 1996. Japan's steel industry rationalisation plan is
aimed at cutting production capacity sharply over the next few years.
REUTER 

CABLEVISION SYSTEMS <CVCC> BUYS STATIONS
     WOODBURY, N.Y., June 29 - 
Cablevision Systems Corp said it bought cable television systems in
six Dutchess County, N.Y., communities from Dutchess County
Cablevision Associates Ltd. The company said the acquisition of the
new systems will add to its presence in New York. It said it will add
4,400 subsribers to its 568,000 subscriber base. Reuter 

RENTA INMOBILIARIA SEEKS CANNON GROUP <CAN> ASSETS
    MADRID, Oct 19 - 
Spanish property firm <Renta Inmobiliaria SA> is negotiating to buy
the property assets of U.S. media company Cannon Group Inc <CAN>,
Renta's finance director Jose Luis Sanchez said. Sanchez told Reuters
that Renta's chairman Juan Antonio Robles was currently in the U.S. to
negotiate the deal but declined to give other details. Interpart, a
Luxembourg-based holding company chaired by Italian financier
Giancarlo Paretti, payed around 12.2 billion pesetas in July to
acquire a 63.5 pct stake in Renta Inmobiliaria. The Spanish daily
newspaper El Pais said the Cannon property assets sought by Renta
included the Elstree film studios in Britain and a chain of movie-
theaters in Europe and the U.S. Reuter 

ELECTROHOME <EL.X.TO> TO SELL UNIT
    Kitchener, Ontario, April 13 - 
Electrohome Ltd said it agreed to sell certain assets of the computer
service sector of its AABEX service division to Canadian General
Electric Co Ltd <CGE.TO>. Terms were not disclosed. The closing date
is expected to be May 1, 1987. Reuter 

TECSYN <TSNA.TO> TERMINATES TAKEOVER TALKS
    ST. CATHARINES, Ontario, June 29 - 
TecSyn International Inc said it terminated takeover discussions with
a U.S.-based investors group after the group was unable to establish
access to funds to complete the proposed transactions, contrary to
previous assurances. TecSyn previously said it and its controlling
shareholders accepted in principle a proposal from the group to offer
nine dlrs a share for 70 pct of TecSyn's outstanding shares. The
investor group also planned to invest 22.5 mln dlrs in a private
placement of four mln non-voting TecSyn common shares, the company
said. Reuter 

HOSPITAL CORP SAYS IT RECEIVED 47 DLR A SHARE OFFER FROM INVESTOR GROUP




TELEX <TC> ADOPTS SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN
    DALLAS, Oct 9 - 
Telex Corp said its board adopted a shareholder rights plan which will
allow shareholders to purchase one common share for two dlrs if a
hostile group acquires 15 pct or more of the company. However, the
company said the plan will not be triggered by purchases pursuant to
the 65 dlrs a share tender offer commenced on October 9 by a unit of
TLX Partners, a group controlled by New York financier Asher Edelman.
It said the rights will be distributed on a one for one basis to all
shareholders as of October 30 and may be redeemed before they become
exercisable at five cents per right. The company said the rights will
expire on the later of February 17 next year or 60 days from the date
they become exercisable. It said the plan was intended to protect
stockholders against any attempt to take unfair advantage of the
recent decline in stock prices or to use abusive tactics such as
market accumulations which would interfere with its ability to
maximize stockholder value. The rights become exercisable if any
person or group acquires 15 pct or more of the company's common stock
other than through an all cash tender offer for all outstanding shares
at 65 dlrs per share. It said the rights will also not become
exercisable if the company is acquired by a group under an agreement
made with its board. A spokeswoman told Reuters the company would have
an official response to Edelman's bid by Friday, Oct 23. Reuter 

JACOBS SELLS STAKE IN GILLETTE <GS>
    CHICAGO, Oct 20 - 
Minneapolis investor Irwin Jacobs said he sold the stake he held in
Gillette Co <GS> after deciding that he could not force Gillette to
accept a 47 dlr a share takeover bid made by Revlon Group Inc <REV>.
Revlon's bid expired last week after being repeatedly rejected by
Gillette. Jacobs had earlier considered waging a proxy fight over
Gillette. Jacobs told Reuters he sold the Gillette stake, which he
called "substantial" but under five pct, a few weeks ago over a period
of several days. He said he sold the stock at a profit, but did not
disclose the selling price. Gillette's stock was at 24-1/8, up 1/8, in
morning trade, off the high of 45-7/8 reached after Revlon announced
its bid. Jacobs said he sold his Gillette stake based on an
"investment decision. I surely did not see this happening," he said of
Monday's stock market free-fall. A Gillette spokesman said the mpany
had no comment. Jacobs said he and fellow investor Carl Pohlad
continue to hold a stake in Allegheny International Inc <AG>. In
August they disclosed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing
that they had acquired 854,900 shares, or 7.9 pct, of Allegheny and
would consideer seeking control of the company. Reuter 

LASMO CANADA TO MERGE WITH ONYX PETROLEUM
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
LASMO Exploration (Canada) Ltd, a subsidiary of London & Scottish
Marine Oil Plc <LSML.L>, is merging with <Onyx Petroleum Exploration
Co Ltd>, LASMO said. The merger is to be made by Onyx buying LASMO
Exploration, in a share swap. A new company, LASMO Canada Inc, will be
formed. LASMO will control 70 pct of the equity, worth some 76 mln
Canadian dlrs based on the current Onyx share price. The new company
will have proven reserves of 9.5 mln barrels of oil and 20.9 billion
cubic feet of gas, LASMO said. Reuter 

SCIENCE ACCESSORIES <SEAS.O> ENDS PURCHASE TALKS
    SOUTHPORT, Conn., Oct 20 - 
Science Accessories Corp said it has ended talks on acquiring
privately-held Owl Electronics Laborarories Inc because it could not
reach satisfactory terms. Reuter 

WESTERN MINING SELLS ACM STAKE
    MELBOURNE, April 13 - 
Western Mining Corp Holdings Ltd <WMNG.S> (WMC) said it sold its
entire holding of 22.13 mln shares in the gold mining company
<Australian Consolidated Minerals Ltd> (ACM). WMC gave no details, but
stockbrokers said the sale was made at eight dlrs a share on Friday to
a number of U.S., European and Australian investors through WMC's
usual brokers. The company purchased the 19.9 pct parcel in early
March from Amax Inc <AMX.N> at 6.32 dlrs a share ahead of a one-for-
three bonus issue when Amax sold its entire 47 pct stake in ACM to a
number of local companies. REUTER 

GENCORP INC SAYS TO SELL GENERAL TIRE TO CONTINENTAL
GUMMI FOR 650 MLN DLRS




CONRAC CORP SAID IT HAS ENTERED TALKS ON ITS ACQUISITION WITH SEVERAL PARTIES




GAF <GAF> STUDYING BORG-WARNER <BOR> PLAN
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
GAF Corp is studying an agreement under which Merrill Lynch Capital
Partners will take Borg-Warner Corp private in a 4.23 billion dlr
transaction, a GAF spokesman said. The spokesman had no further
comment. Analysts said there was speculation GAF would make a new
offer for the Chicago-based plastics and automobile parts company.
Borg-Warner's stock rose 7/8 to 49-1/4, above the Merrill Lynch 48.50
dlrs per share tender offer price. Merrill Lynch Capital Partners, a
unit of Merrill Lynch and Co, is tendering for 89 pct of Borg-Warner
and offering a package of cash and securities for the balance of the
shares. GAF had offered 46 dlrs per share previously. It holds 19.9
pct of Borg-Warner's stock. Reuter 

USAIR <U> REPORTS FINAL PRORATION FACTOR
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
USAir Group Inc said, in announcing the final proration factor for its
tender offer for Piedmont Aviation Inc <PIE>, that 17.0 mln shares, or
90 pct of the shares were validly tendered. USAir said it has
purchased and will pay for 9.3 mln shares, representing about 55 pct
of those tendered. Reuter 

APPLIED DATA <ADCC.O> TO BUY DATELINE
    TUSTIN, Calif., June 19 - 
Applied Data Communications said it agreed to acquire privately-held
Dateline Technology Inc of Redmond, Wash., for an undisclosed amount
of cash and stock. Dateline Technology designs and sells high-
capacity, high-speed computer peripheral subsystems, primarily for
data storage, Applied Data said. Reuter 

HONG KONG FIRM HAS 5.1 PCT OF MCGILL <MGLL.O>
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd told the Securities and Exchange
Commission it has acquired 72,600 shares of McGill Manufacturing Co
Inc, or 5.1 pct of the total outstanding common stock. Industrial
Equity, which is principally owned by Brierley Investments Ltd, a
publicly held New Zealand firm, said it bought the stake for 2.3 mln
dlrs for investment purposes. It said it may add to its stake, or sell
some or all of it, but has no plans to seek control of the company.
Reuter 

WALLACE COMPUTER <WCS> BUY OFFICE PRODUCTS FIRM
    HILLSIDE, ILL., June 1 - 
Wallace Computer Services Inc said it acquired for 12 mln dlrs in cash
and industrial revenue bonds, certain assets of Rockwell-Barnes Inc, a
Chicago-based office products company. Reuter 

PEPSICO UNIT <PEP> LIFTS <CALNY.O> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Taco Bell Corp, a unit of Pepsico Inc, said it increased its stake in
Calny Inc common stock to 1,349,884 shares, or 27.9 pct of the total
outstanding, from a previous figure of approximately 1,230,107 shares,
or 25.4 pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Taco Bell said it bought 119,867 Calny common shares on October 15 and
16 at 10.75 dlrs a share. No reason was given for the recent
purchases. Reuter 

BECOR <BCW> TO ADJOURN DELAYED HOLDERS MEETING
    SOUTH MILWAUKEE, Wisc, June 29 - 
Becor Western Inc said no business will be transacted at the
shareholders meeting scheduled for 1000 CDT tomorrow and the meeting
will be permanently adjourned. If a definitive agreement or
transaction results from any of the offers now pending for the
company's stock, Becor said, a date for a new shareholders meeting
will be established. Reuter 

ANHEUSER-BUSCH JOINS BID FOR SAN MIGUEL
    MANILA, April 8 - 
Anheuser-Busch Companies Inc <BUD.N> has joined several other foreign
bidders for sequestered shares of the Philippines' largest food and
beverage maker San Miguel Corp <SANM.MN>, the head of a government
panel which controls the shares told Reuters. Ramon Diaz, Secretary of
the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG), said Anheuser-
Busch had told the government it was interested in buying 14 mln "B"
shares of San Miguel. He did not disclose the offered price. Diaz said
Australian brewer Alan Bond's Bond Corp Holdings Ltd had offered 150
pesos per share for the "B" shares. Diaz said New York investment bank
Allen and Co Inc had earlier said it was interested in buying all 38.1
mln sequestered shares. He told Reuters last month Elders IXL Ltd
<ELXA.S>, the Melbourne-based brewing company, had also bid for the
"B" shares. The Hong Kong Economic Journal last month quoted a
spokesman of Australian stock broker Jacksons Ltd as saying that
<Barwon Farmlands Ltd>, an Australian firm owned 30 pct by <Ariadne
Australia Ltd>, was planning a Filipino branch in order to buy the
entire block of 38.1 mln shares. Anheuser-Busch last year made a 150
mln dlr bid to buy <San Miguel Brewery Ltd>, a Hong Kong listed
company which is 69.65 pct owned by <Neptunia Corp Ltd>, a San Miguel
Corp subsidiary. The talks broke down last June after the two sides
said they could not agree on the terms of the sale. REUTER 

COLT INDUSTRIES <COT> TO SELL BRITISH UNIT
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Colt Industries Inc said it signed a conditional agreement to sell its
Woodville Polymer Engineering Ltd subsidiary in Great Britain to the
Dowty Group PLC of Gloucestershire, England, for 35.9 mln stg. The
deal is scheduled to close by the end of June, the company said.
Woodville, which makes high technology precision products for
aerospace, automotive and other industries, had 1986 sales of about 24
mln stg, it said. Reuter 

DART GROUP SAID IT WILL NOT SOLICIT PROXIES OR ATTEMPT TO ACQUIRE DAYTON HUDSON




XEROX <XRX> AFFILIATE TO SELL S.AFRICAN UNIT
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Xerox Corp's affiliate Rank Xerox Ltd said it signed a definitive
agreement to sell its Rank Xerox South Africa Pty Ltd affiliate to
Altron Group <ALRN.O>, for undisclosed terms. Xerox said the
preliminary agreement to sell the affiliate to Fintech, an Altron
unit, had been reached in March. Xerox said completion of the sale
awaits approval of Fintech shareholders and a review by the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Rank Xerox South Africa was founded in
1964 as a wholly owned unit of Rank Xerox, the Xerox affiliate that
manufactures and markets Xerox products in the Eastern Hemisphere.
Rank Xerox said that of the 800-man workforce of Rank Xerox South
Africa, 40 pct are black, colored or Asian. The company will become a
wholly owned unit of Altron. Reuter 

GOODMAN FIELDER HAS 29.9 PCT OF RANKS HOVIS
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
Goodman Fielder Ltd <GOOW.S> of Australia said in a statement that it
had acquired 31 mln ordinary shares in Ranks Hovis McDougall Plc
<RHML.L> (RHM), bringing its stake in the company to 29.9 pct or 101
mln ordinary shares. Goodman said it has no intention of making a full
bid for the company and would not contemplate doing so over the next
six months in the absence of a material change in the circumstances of
Ranks. RHM said it regards the stake build-up as a hostile move which
is unwelcome and not in the long term interest of shareholders. Reuter


NAPCO <NPCO> MANAGEMENT CANNOT RAISE FUNDING
    HOPKINS, MINN., April 9 - 
Napco International Inc said it has suspended its plan to sell its
international business to a group of that business' top managers
because the group has failed to obtain satisfactory financing. The
company also said it still intends to pursue a new corporate
direction, and is exploring acquisition alternatives. Reuter 

HENLEY GROUP REVIEWING INVESTMENT IN SANTA FE SOUTHERN PACIFIC




STE-GENEVIEVE UPS OFFER FOR SULLIVAN <SUM.TO>
    MONTREAL, June 29 - 
Ste-Genevieve Resources Ltd said it increased its cash takeover bid
for Sullivan Mines Inc shares to 7.25 dlrs a share. It did not give
the original bid. The offer is for a minimum five mln common shares
and a maximum six mln shares, the company said. It gave no further
details. Reuter 

UNILEVER DECLINES COMMENT ON GILLETTE BID RUMOURS
    LONDON, June 18 - 
A spokesman for Unilever Plc <UN.AS> declined to comment on market
rumours that it may be considering a bid for the U.S. Health care
group The Gillette Co <GS.N>. Gillette shares are traded on the over-
the-counter market in London and this morning stood one dollar higher
at 38 dlrs in response to the bid speculation. Unilever dipped 33p to
3,275 in a generally depressed U.K. Market. Most analysts dismissed
the rumours saying it was an old story, and one commented that it was
"utter rubbish," adding he thought Unilever would not be interested in
Gillette. Gillette shares rose sharply at the beginning of the month
on Wall Street rumours that Sir James Goldsmith was building a stake
in the company. Gillette has been the subject of repeated rumours
since Ronald Perelman, chairman of the Revlon Group Inc <REV>, made an
unsuccessful bid for the company last year. REUTER 

REAL ESTATE FIRM CUTS INTERMAGNETICS<INMA> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
Roland International Corp, a Coconut Grove, Fla., real estate
development company, said it cut its stake in Intermagnetics General
Corp to 308,400 shares, or 4.8 pct of the total outstanding, from
358,400 shares, or 5.6 pct. In a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Roland said it sold 50,000 shares on Feb 4 at
5.13 dlrs each. As long as Roland's stake in Intermagnetics General is
below five pct, it is not required to report any further dealings in
the company's stock. Reuter 

JACOR <JCOR> TO BUY TWO DENVER RADIO STATIONS
    CINCINNATI, April 9 - 
Jacor Communications Inc said it agreed to buy two Denver radio
stations from A.H. Belo Corp <BLC> for 24 mln dlrs in cash and notes.
Jacor said the two stations are KOA-AM and KOAQ-FM. The acquisitions
must be approved by the Federal Communications Commission, Jacor
added. Reuter 

THOMSON TAKES OVER THORN EMI AUDIOVISUAL
    PARIS, June 18 - 
Thomson Grand Public, the subsidiary of Thomson SA <THMP.PA>, has
taken over the audiovisual consumer goods division of British group
Thorn EMI, Thomson Grand Public chairman Pierre Garcin said. The cost
of the deal, signed late yesterday, is around 90 mln stg and Thomson
will finance 50 mln of this from its equity. Thorn EMI is a leader in
the British audiovisual market with a turnover last year of 300 mln
stg. Garcin said the new acquisition would substantially increase
Thomson's turnover in the sector. REUTER 

HARCOURT BRACE <HBJ> CALLS SPECIAL MEETING
    ORLANDO, Fla., June 18 - 
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc said it has called a special meeting for
July 23 for a vote on an increase in authorized common shares to 100
mln from 50 mln, an increase in preferred shares to 150 mln from
2,500,000 and a provision allowing the payment of preferred dividends
in stock or property as well as cash. The company said June 29 will be
the record date for the meeting. Harcourt which is fighting off a
takeover bid from <British Printing and Communication Corp PLC>, has
declared a special dividend on common stock of 40 dlrs in cash and 12
pct preferred stock with a market value of 10 dlrs per share. The
special dividend is to be paid July 27. Reuter 

RESDEL <RSDL.O> TO MERGE WITH SAN/BAR <SBAR.O>
    NEWPORT BEACH, Calif., April 13 - 
Resdel Industries said it and San/Bar Corp has agreed to merge San/Bar
into Resdel. The arrangement calls for San/Bar to spin-off assets of
its Break-Free division to shareholders then exchange its own shares
for Resdel stock at a ratio of one Resdel share for each San/Bar share
held, Resdel said. Reuter 

GREAT ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC TEA CO SAID IT WITHDREW ITS OFFER TO BUY DELCHAMPS INC




N.Z.'S CHASE CORP MAKES OFFER FOR ENTREGROWTH
    WELLINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Chase Corp Ltd <CHCA.WE> said it will make an offer for all fully-paid
shares and options of <Entregrowth International Ltd> it does not
already own. Chase, a property investment firm, said it holds 48 pct
of Entregrowth, its vehicle for expansion in North America. It said
agreements are being concluded to give it a beneficial 72.4 pct
interest. The offer for the remaining shares is one Chase share for
every three Entregrowth shares and one Chase option for every four
Entregrowth options. Chase shares closed on Friday at 4.41 dlrs and
the options at 2.38. Entregrowth closed at 1.35 dlrs and options at 55
cents. Chase said the offer for the remaining 27.6 pct of Entregrowth,
worth 34.2 mln dlrs, involved the issue of 5.80 mln Chase shares and
3.10 mln Chase options. Chase chairman Colin Reynolds said the
takeover would allow Entregrowth to concentrate on North American
operations with access to Chase's international funding base and a
stronger executive team. He said there also would be benefits from
integrating New Zealand investment activities. Chase said the offer is
conditional it receiving accptances for at least 90 pct of the shares
and options. REUTER 

CCR VIDEO <CCCR.O> IN TALKS ON BEING ACQUIRED
    LOS ANGELES, Oct 19 - 
CCR Video Corp said it has received an offer to enter into
negotiations for <Intercep Investment Corp> to acquire a controlling
interest through a tender offer. The company said "The negotiations
would determine the terms under which the CCR board of directors could
support the INTERCEP tender offer." It gave no further details. Reuter


BEVIS <BEVI> RECEIVES TAKEOVER INQUIRIES
    PROVIDENCE, R.I., April 9 - 
Bevis Industries Inc, which has been seeking to be acquired, said it
recently received inquiries concerning the purchase of the company.
The company did not identify the parties that made the inquiries, but
it said they had been referred to its investment bankers, Tucker,
Anthony and R.L. Day Inc, for study. On March 18, the company said it
engaged Tucker, Anthony to seek purchasers of its operating units,
Greenville Tube Corp and MD Pneumatics Inc. Reuter 

INFO-DATA TO ACQUIRE USA OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
    DEERFIELD BEACH, Fla., June 1 - 
<Info-Data Inc> said it will acquire <USA Outdoor Advertising Inc> of
Jacksonville, Fla., in exchange for stock. USA Outdoor Advertising was
acquired for 62.4 pct of the outstanding shares of Info-Data Inc, the
company said. Info-Data said it plans to change its name to USA
Outdoor Advertising Inc to reflect the change in the company's
operations. Reuter 

CDC LIFE SCIENCES <LSI.TO> STAKE SOLD
    TORONTO, June 29 - 
Canada Development Corp <CDC.TO> said it agreed to sell its 25.2 pct
interest in CDC Life Sciences Inc to Caisse de depot et placement du
Quebec, the provincial pension fund manager, and Institut Merieux, a
French biological laboratory company, for 169.2 mln dlrs. It said the
caisse and Institut Merieux will each buy 2.75 mln common shares of
the company for 30.76 dlrs a share. It said following the transaction
the caisse will hold about 19.3 pct of CDC Life Sciences. Canada
Development said the purchasers do not plan to acquire the remaining
publicly-held shares. Reuter 

COLONIAL BANCGROUP <CLBGA> BUYS DESTIN BANK
    MONTGOMERY, Ala., June 19 - 
Colonial Bancgroup said it agreed to buy <First National Bank of
Destin> for an undisclosed sum. The company said if it is approved,
the sale will mark its second move to acquire a Florida bank. It said
it signed a letter of intent to buy Liberty Bank of Pensacola in
April. Reuter 

BOND CORP TO ACQUIRE 80 PCT OF MERLIN PETE
    PERTH, April 13 - 
Bond Corp Holdings Ltd <BONA.S> said it has agreed to acquire an 80
pct stake in <Merlin International Petroleum Corp> from <Crowley
Maritime Corp> for 90.8 mln U.S. Dlrs. Of this total, 7.8 mln dlrs is
due on exchange of contracts on April 30 and 69 mln on July 7, subject
to any regulatory approvals being obtained, Bond said in a statement.
The balance of 14 mln dlrs will be paid as required by Merlin for its
exploration and production commitments, it said. Bond said Merlin has
a 6.25 pct working interest plus a 2.5 pct reversionary interest in
the Papua New Guinea permit, PPL-17, the site of the Iagifu oil
discovery. Merlin also has a 12.5 pct stake in the adjacent Papuan
Basin permit, PPL-18, which contains the Juha gas and condensate
discovery. In addition to Papua New Guinea, Merlin has petroleum
exploration and production interests in the U.S., Bond added. REUTER 

INVESTMENT FIRM UPS FRANCE FUND <FRN> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
VBI Corp, a British West Indies investment firm, told the Securities
and Exchange Commission it raised its stake in France Fund Inc to
1,075,700 shares, or 14.3 pct of the total, from 896,500 shares, or
11.9 pct. VBI said it bought 179,200 France Fund common shares between
April 24 and June 2 at prices ranging from 13.000 to 14.125 dlrs a
share. Reuter 

BECOR WESTERN <BCW>AGAIN ADJOURNS HOLDER MEETING
    SOUTH MILWAUKEE, Wis., June 18 - 
Becor Western Inc said its reconvened shareholders meeting has been
adjourned to 1000 CDT June 30. The company had previously announced
plans to again adjourn the meeting following receipt of a renewed
offer from Lynch Corp <LGL> yesterday. The meeting was originally
convened on June four when shareholders approved the sale of Becor's
Western Gear Corp subsidiary before adjourning. The remaining matter
to be presented is the proposed acquisition of Becor by BCW
Acquisition Inc, now one of four offers for the company./ Reuter 

CINCINNATI BELL <CSN> STARTS AUXTON <AUXT> BID
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
Cincinnati Bell Inc said it has started its previously-announced 15.75
dlr per share tender offer for all shares of Auxton Computer
Enterprises Inc. In a newspaper advertisement, the company said the
tender and withdrawal rights will expire May Five unless extended. The
offer, which has been approved by the Auxton board and is to be
followed by a merger at the same price, is conditioned on receipt of a
majority of Auxton's voting stock on a fully diluted basis. Reuter 

CHAMPION HOME <CHB> SELLS TWO PROPERTIES
    DRYDEN, Mich., June 2 - 
Champion Home Builders Inc said it sold the Commerce Meadows 600-site
manufactured housing rental community in Commerce Township, Michigan,
for a pre-tax gain of about 900,000 dlrs and the Heron Cay 610-site
adult community in Vero Beach, Florida, for a nominal pre-tax gain.
The company said the sales proceeds will be partly used to reduce
debt. It said it is shifting its focus away from the development of
communities requiring significant equity and having lengthy projected
life cycles. The company also said along with local landowners and
investors, it will acquire 33-acre tract Northtowne Meadows in the
Toledo, Ohio, area for development into 160 home sites and three acres
of commercial land. Terms of the transactions and other parties
involved were not disclosed. Reuter 

BASS GROUP HAS STAKE IN BELL AND HOWELL <BHW>
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
An investor group led by Robert Bass of Fort Worth, Texas said it owns
786,800 shares of Bell and Howell Co common stock, equal to 8.9 pct of
the company's common stock outstanding. In a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said it purchased
511,500 Bell and Howell common shares between April 29 and June 26 at
44.25 dlrs to 56.02 dlrs a share. The stock was acquired for
investment purposes, the group said, adding it may purchase or sell
additional shares in the future. Reuter 

RTE CORP <RTE> BUYS EMHART CORP UNIT
     BROOKFIELD, Wis., June 29 - 
RTE Corp said it completed the purchase of Emhart Corp's United States
aluminum electrolytic capacitor business for an undisclosed sum. The
company said the capacitor business is part of Emhart's electrical and
electronic group marketed under the Mallory brand name. The company
said the product lines it acquired had sales of 25 mln dlrs last year.
Reuter 

AMEX SAYS BEAR STEARNS BOUGHT SPECIALIST UNIT
    NEW YORK, Oct. 20 - 
The American Stock Exchange said, as previously reported, that Bear
Stearns and Co <BSC> has purchased <W. Damm, M. Frank and Co>, a
specialist unit on the Amex trading floor. Amex said the unit, which
trades stocks and options is small in comparison to other specialist
units. The personel and operations remain the same, the exchange
added. The price was not disclosed. A specialist unit is authorized by
a stock exchange to deal as an agent for other brokers to keep a
stable market in one or more particular stocks. Reuter 

ATLANTIC FINANCIAL <ATLF.O> TO ACQUIRE S AND L
    BALA CYNWYD, Pa., April 13 - 
Atlantic Financial said it signed a definitive agreement to acquire
<Centurion Savings and Loan Association>. Atlantic did not disclose
the purchase price. Atlantic said it originally announced its
intention to acquire Centurion, located in Los Angeles, on Feb 23,
1987. Centurion has assets of 105 mln dlrs, Atlantic said. Reuter 

U.S COMMERCE DEPT OPPOSES FOREIGN TAKEOVER BAN
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
Commerce Undersecretary J. Michael Farren opposed language in the
trade bill before Congress to limit foreign takeovers of U.S.
companies. "Anything that would serve to have a chilling effect on
foreign investment is going to cost us jobs and economic growth,"
Farren said before a congressional coittee. House and Senate
negotiators are ironing out differences in trade bills passed by both
chambers. Once the negotiators reach agreement, the bill will be sent
to President Reagan for his signature. Reuter 

CLEVITE <CLEV> GETS 13.50 DLR/SHR OFFER
    GLENVIEW, ILL., April 9 - 
Clevite Industries Inc said it received a written proposal from J.P.
Industries Inc <JPI> seeking to buy all of its outstanding shares for
13.50 dlrs a share. Clevite's stock was trading on NASDAQ at 13-1/4.
J.P. Industries recently completed the acquisition of Clevite's Engine
Parts Division. J.P. Industries said its proposed transaction would be
financed through borrowings under its available bank lines and a
bridge financing facility which Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette
Securities Corp agreed to arrange. To expedite the transaction, J.P.
Industries said it would be willing to start a cash tender for
Clevite's shares within five days after agreeing upon a definitive
merger and confirmation of Clevite's financial results and condition.
Reuter 

ARCHER-DANIELS <ADM> DENIES RUMOR
    CHICAGO, June 19 - 
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co denied a report that it is interested in
acquiring International Minerals and Chemical Corp (IGL). "We have no
interest in International Minerals or any of its divisions," a
spokesman told Reuters. "We've had no conversations with them." USA
Today reported that Archer-Daniels-Midland might be seeking a hostile
takeover of International Minerals. Reuter 

CORADIAN <CDIN.O> STAKE ACQUIRED BY SAGE
    ALBANY, N.Y., June 29 - 
Coradian Corp said a group led by privately held Sage Equities Group
agreed to buy a 7.6 pct interest in Coradian. In connection with the
agreement, the company said it sold 666,667 shares at 75 cts a share.
It said that in addition to common stock, Sage Equities will receive
667,667 warrants exercisable at 1.50 dlrs a share. Reuter 

A/W BRANDS <SODA.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    WHITE PLAINS, N.Y., Oct 20 - 
A and W Brands Inc said it completed the acquisition of Vernors Inc
from United Brands Co <UB> in a cash and stock transaction worth
valued at about 10 mln dlrs Reuter 

<EMCOR> COMPLETES SALE OF STOCK TO INVESTORS
    SOUTH PLAINFIELD, N.J., April 9 - 
Emcore said it completed the sale of 4.1 mln dlrs of stock to Citicorp
Venture Capital Ltd, Concord Ventures of Dillon Read and Co and
private investors. Reuter 

FOUNDATION CUTS WURLITZER <WUR> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
The Farny R. Wurlitzer Foundation told the Securities and Exchange
Commission it cut its stake in Wurlitzer Co to 89,000 shares, or 4.98
pct of the total outstanding common stock, from 125,000 shares, or 7.0
pct. The foundation said it sold 36,000 Wurlitzer common shares
between March 13 and 30 at prices ranging from 3.25 to 2.375 dlrs a
share. As long as the foundation's stake in Wurlitzer is below five
pct, it is not required to report further dealings it has in the
company's common stock. Reuter 

WINTERHALTER <WNTLC> HOLDERS OKAY TAKEOVER
    ANN ARBOR, Mich., April 9 - 
Winterhalter Inc said its shareholders approved the 525,000 dlr
acquisition of Winterhalter by Interface Systems Inc <INTF>. The
acquisition would be for 15 cts per Winterhalter share. Reuter 

GATEWAY <GMSI.O> RECINDS OFFER FOR WESTWORLD
    ATLANTA, June 19 - 
Gateway Medical Systems Inc said it has withdrawn its May 27 offer to
acquire <Westworld Community Healthcare Inc>. The company said it
remains interested in acquiring the Westworld's hospitals and will
attempt to continue negotiations with Westworld. Reuter 

FIRST CITY <FCY> SELLS YALE, NUTONE UNITS
    BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., June 1 - 
First City Industries Inc said it has reached a definitive agreement
to sell its Nuton and Yale security subsidiaries to Valor PLC for 400
mln dlrs and warrants to purchase two mln Valor ordinary shares. In
addition, the company said it will recieve a special dividend of 60
mln dlrs from Nutone and Yale and it has agreed to buy 35 mln dlrs of
Valor convertible preference shares. First City said it is seeking to
increase shareholder values by improving and realizing the values
inherent in its operating subsidiaries. The company said the
transaction is subject to approval by shareholders of Valor and is
expected to be completed within 40 days. It said Valor has arranged
financing through an issue of ordinary and convertible preference
shares underwritten by Hoare Govette Ltd and Barclays de Zoete Wedd
Ltd. Nutone makes built-in electric products for the housing market
and Yale makes door locks and electronic security products. Valor
makes home products. Reuter 

E.F. HUTTON <EFH> UNIT'S PUROLATOR OFFER EXPIRES
    NEW YORK, April 9 - 
E.F. Hutton LBO Inc said the tender offer by its wholly owned unit, PC
Acquisition Inc, for Purolator Courier Corp <PCC> expired at 2400 EDT
yesterday without the purchase of any Purolator common stock. Hutton
added that PC Acquisition also terminated its merger agreement with
Purolator. Hutton said the offer, which had been conditioned upon the
tender of at least 5,116,892 Purolator shares, or about two-thirds of
the outstanding shares, was terminated because the minimum number of
shares was not tendered. Purolator had entered into a definitive
agreement with PC Acquisition, part-owned by E.F. Hutton LBO Inc, a
unit of E.F. Hutton, and some officers of Purolator's U.S. courier
division, in which PC offered to purchase 6,332,471 Purolator common
stock shares for 35 dlrs a share. Following that move, PC Acquisition
planned to merge a subsidiary into Purolator, converting all
outstanding Purolator common it did not own into an aggregate 46 mln
dlrs principal amount of 12 pct guaranteed debentures due 2002 and
warrants to purchase 15 pct of a Purolator unit comprised of
Purolator's U.S courier operations. Hutton said as of 2400 EDT
yesterday about 181,000 shares of Purolator common stock, or about 2.4
pct of the outstanding shares, had been validly tendered and not
withdrawn. PC Acquisition has instructed its depository for the offer
to return promptly the Purolator stock deposited by, or on behalf of,
tendering shareholders, Hutton said. Reuter 

MAXWELL WOULD NOT RENEW BID IF SUIT FAILS
    London, June 1 - 
British press magnate Robert Maxwell said his British Printing and
Communication Corp Plc would not renew its bid for Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich Inc <HBJ> if the lawsuit filed against Harcourt in New York
today fails. Speaking at a press conference, Maxwell denied market
rumors that British Printing had approached British institutions to
arrange a rights issue with a view to relaunching its bid for the U.S.
publishing concern. "I don't believe in chasing mirages," maxwell
said. British Printing filed suit in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
to block what Maxwell called a fraudulent recapitalization announced
by Harcourt last week. Harcourt, in response to a hostile two billion
dlr takeover proposal from Maxwell, planned a recapitalization that
would pay shareholders 40 dlrs per share. Under the plan, it also said
40 pct of its shares will be controlled by its employees, management,
and its financial adviser, First Boston Corp <FBC>. Reuter 

BARRIS IND. SAYS IT LEADS GROUP WITH 9.8 PCT OF MEDIA GENERAL, MAY SEEK CONTROL




GAF <GAF> SEEKS INFORMATION ON BORG-WARNER<BOR>
    New York, April 13 - 
GAF Corp said it is exploring its options in response to Merrill Lynch
Capital Partners' 4.23 billion dlr offer for Borg-Warner Corp, and it
has asked for all information that was supplied to Merrill Lynch. A
GAF spokesman said the company asked for the information in order to
enable GAF to fully evaluate its alternatives. The spokesman also
confirmed that GAF did raise its bid to 48 dlrs cash from 46 dlrs per
share on Friday. Merrill is offering 48.50 dlrs per share cash for 89
pct of Borg-Warner, and a package of cash and securities for the
balance. The transaction with Merrill Lynch will take Borg-Warner
private in the form of a leveraged buyout. Merrill Lynch does not
intend to sell Borg-Warner assets, but it may be forced to do so in
financing the deal, said sources familiar with the transaction. Borg-
Warner has said its management is not a participant in the
transaction, but managers will retain their positions. The investors
involved with Merrill include pension funds, insurance companies and
other institutional investors, sources said. Analysts believe GAF,
which owns 19.9 pct of Borg-Warner, will raise its offer. That
speculation drove Borg-warner stock up 1-3/8 to 49-5/8 in heavy
trading. GAF closed at 49-5/8, off 3/4. Reuter 

NEW JERSEY INVESTOR BUYS 5.2 PCT OF KINARK <KIN>
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
A New Jersey investor, Joseph Falkenstein, told the Securities and
Exchange Commission he holds 5.2 pct of the shares of Kinark Corp. He
said he has no plans to change the company and that he bought the
shares because he believed the stock was undervalued and would rise in
the next six months. reuter 

PHILIP CROSBY <PCRO.O> MAKES ACQUISITION
    WINTER HAVEN, Fla., June 1 - 
Philip Crosby Associates Inc said it has agreed to acquire Process
Integrity Inc of Dallas, a computer software designer, for undisclosed
terms. It said Process' software helps companies monitor industrial
processes, identifies problems and recommends solutions. Reuter 

CANADIAN BASHAW, ERSKINE RESOURCES TO MERGE
    Edmonton, Alberta, April 8 - 
Canadian Bashaw Leduc Oil and Gas Ltd said it agreed to merge with
Erskine Resources Ltd. Terms were not disclosed. Ownership of the
combined company with 18.8 pct for the current shareholders of
Canadian Bashaw and 81.2 pct to the current shareholders of Erskine,
the companies said. Reuter 

P.H. GLATFELTER CO SAYS IT WILL BUY ECUSTA CORP FOR 149 MLN DLRS IN CASH




BOEING <BA> TO ACQUIRE DEFENSE ELECTRONICS FIRM
    SEATTLE, June 1 - 
Boeing Co and ARGOSystems Inc <ARGI.O> said they reached an agreement
for Boeing to acquire the Sunnyvale, Calif., defense electronics firm
for about 275 mln dlrs. The boards of both companies have approved the
merger, which will be accomplished through a tender offer by a Boeing
subsidiary of 37 dlrs a share cash for all of ARGOSystems' shares, the
companies said. Under the agreement, the Boeing subsidiary, TBC
Holdings Corp, will begin the tender offer promptly. If at least 90
pct of the shares are not tendered, the offer will be prorated to 49
pct, the companies said. ARGOSystems has granted Boeing an option to
buy 1,238,311 shares or 18.5 pct of the outstanding stock for 37 dlrs
a share, they said. Also, Bill May, chairman of ARGOSystems, and three
other officers have granted Boeing an option to buy their shares,
another 8.9 pct of the outstanding stock, for 37 dlrs a share.
ARGOSystems makes equipment to monitor and analyze military
communications signals, electronic warfare equipment to monitor and
jam radar signals and signal processing systems. For the nine months
ended March 31, 1987, ARGOSystems reported earnings more than doubled
to 6.3 mln dlrs or 95 cts a share from 3.1 mln dlrs or 46 cts. The
year-ago period included a 2.2 mln dlr charge from a writedown of
securities. Sales rose 23.5 pct to 70.9 mln dlrs. Sales are expected
to exceed 100 mln dlrs for the fiscal year ending June 30, the
companies said in a joint statement. The company's backlog is
currently more than 180 mln dlrs, they said. It has about 1,200
employees. About 30 pct of ARGOSystems' business comes from
international customers. "ARGOSystems is a clear leader in its field.
This association will expand our overall activities and significantly
enhance our ability to compete in the defense electronics area,"
Boeing president Frank Shrontz said in a statement. ARGOSystems will
operate as a wholly owned subsidiary of Boeing Co. The merger
following the tender offer will be subject to approval by ARGOSystems
shareholders, the companies said. The tender offer and merger are
subject to customary conditions and expiration of the Hart-Scott-
Rodino notification waiting period, they said. Reuter 

N.Y. TIMES <NYT> TO BUY GWINNETT DAILY NEWS
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
The New York Times Co said it had an agreement to buy the Gwinnett
Daily News, an evening newspaper published in Lawrenceville, Ga.,
Terms were not disclosed. The company said Gwinnett has a weekday
circulation of about 27,500 and a Sunday circulation of about 30,900.
The New York Times also said Gwinnett County, a northeast suburb of
Atlanta, is the fastest-growing county in the country. The purchase
agreement includes the Forsyth County News, published on Wednesday and
Sunday and the Winder News, a weekly, among other publications. Reuter


TELEX CORP TO INVESTIGATE ALTERNATIVES TO TLX PARTNERS BID, MAY SEEK OTHER PURCHASERS




MARCADE GROUP INC <MAR> BUYS EUROPE CRAFT
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
Marcade Group said it had agreed to buy Europe Craft Imports Inc for a
combination of cash and common stock. The company said Europe Craft
designs, imports and distributes menswear and sportswear under the
Member's Only brand name. The company said Europe Craft had sales of
70 mln dlrs last year. Marcade said this latest deal is part of an
ongoing acquisition phase. Reuter 

FED APPROVES CITICORP PURCHASE OF SOME ASSETS OF SEARS
CALIF. THRIFT




ARDEN GROUP <ARDNA.O> PLANS ISSUER TENDER
    LOS ANGELES, June 29 - 
Arden Group Inc said it filed a registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission covering two issuer tender offers.
It said one offer its directed to its class A common stock holders and
another to holders of its 8-1/4 pct debentures due March 1, 1989. The
planned offer for common stock holders calls for the company to
exchange either 30 dlrs in cash, or 35 dlrs principal amount of 13 pct
subordinated debentures due September 1, 1997, or one share of a new
class B common stock, for each class A share held, Arden Group said.
It also said the cash payment is subject to proration. In addition,
the company said it plans to offer to exchange one dlr principal
amount of 13 pct debentures due September 1, 1997 for each outstanding
one dlr principal amount of 8-1/4 pct debentures. Reuter 

NATIONAL BEVERAGE TO ACQUIRE FAYGO
    FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., April 9 - 
<National Beverage Corp> said it agreed to acquire privately held
Faygo Beverages Inc for an undisclosed amount of cash. The company
said Detroit-based Faygo, a soft drink maker, has annual revenues of
more than 100 mln dlrs. National Beverage, which is also privately
held, owns and bottles Shasta Beverages, Spree All Natural Beverages
and private label brands in its 11 bottling facilities in the United
States. Reuter 

CABLE AND WIRELESS TO MERGE TWO H.K. UNITS INTO NEW TELECOMMUNICATION OPERATION




CONTEL <CTC> UNIT SALES SEEN BY ANALYSTS
    NEW YORK, June 29 - 
Contel Corp's telecommunications equipment unit is the most likely
candidate for sale by the Atlanta-based telecommunications company,
Wall Street analysts said. "Executone is at the top of the list," said
one analyst, referring to Contel's loss-riden telecommunications
equipment unit. "The question is, who would take it?" he added. The
company, forecasting a 15 pct drop in 1987 operating earnings over
last year, said late today that it is reviewing all operations in an
effort aimed at "maximizing long-term stockholder value." Analysts
also said Contel's federal systems division, which has been hit with
several executive defections, may also be put on the block. Contel
officials declined to comment on the possibility of selling any
operations. However, the company indicated in a statement that it was
closely evaluating the telecommunications and federal systems units.
Reuter 

COMPUTER ASSOC. <CA> BOLSTERS HAND AGAINST IBM
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Computer Associates International Inc's 800 mln dlr merger with Uccel
Corp <UCE> will eliminate its strongest rival, but the company still
faces stiff competition from International Business Machines Corp
<IBM>, Wall Street analysts said. "IBM is still the ruling force in
mainframe systems software," said Scott Smith, an analyst with
Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette. "But the combination of the two
companies will clearly present a much stronger front," he said.
Besides IBM, "Computer Associates will be far and away the most
powerful company in the field," added E.F. Hutton analyst Terence
Quinn. That field is a segment of the market known as system
utilities, or software packages that boost the productivity of a
company's data processing facilities by increasing the speed, power
and efficiency of large mainframe computers. The merger of Uccel and
Computer Associates combines the two biggest systems utilities
suppliers other than IBM. Analysts said the remaining players are
mostly small firms that will find the competition much harder than in
the past. For Computer Associates, the merger with Uccel caps a six-
year acquisition campaign that has vaulted the Garden City, N.Y.-based
company to the top of the software industry. When the deal is
completed sometime in August, the company's revenues will exceed 450
mln dlrs, pushing it past Microsoft Corp <MFST> as the world's largest
independent software vendor. Computer Associates founder and chairman
Charles B. Wang took the company public in 1981, and since then he has
bought 15 companies and boosted annual sales from 18.5 mln to 309.3
mln dlrs for the year ended March 31. Liemandt took charge of Wyly,
sold off its non-computer businesses and decided that it would focus
solely on mainframe computer software. In 1984, the company was
renamed Uccel Corp. Liemandt, who said he will leave the company after
the merger is completed, also turned to acquisitions for growth. On
the last day of 1986, Uccel completed the buyouts of six companies for
a total of about 60 mln dlrs. For 1986, it earned 17.0 mln dlrs, or
1.01 dlrs a share, on sales of 141.5 mln dlrs. The agreement took
industry analysts by surprise, largely because the companies had been
such bitter rivals. Also, Dallas-based Uccel had engineered a strong
comeback from the dark days of 1982, when, as Wyly Corp, it lost 7.7
mln dlrs, or 56 cts a share. At that time, Wyly owned a potpourri of
13 different businesses, only three of which were involved in computer
software. In 1983, Walter Haefner, a Swiss financier and a major Wyly
investor, lured Gregory J. Liemandt away from his job as chairman of
General Electric Co's <GE> computer services unit. Computer
Associates' Wang and Uccel's Liemandt said at a news conference that
the merger would give computer users a single source for a wide range
of software products. In addition to system utilities, Computer
Associates also sell products for microcomputers, while Uccel has made
inroads in the applications software market, where analysts said it
has been successful with accounting and banking systems. Wang said
Computer Associates would continue to support and enhance both
companies' product lines, but noted that the company will eventually
weed out duplicate offerings. He said about 20 pct of the companies'
products overlap. Analysts said the merger would dilute the holdings
of current Computer Associates shareholders by about 10 pct. But they
joined Wang in forecasting that the deal will not dilute Computer
Associates' earnings for the current fiscal year. Quinn of E.F. Hutton
said Wang has a proven track record of completing acquisitions without
earnings dilution. Therefore, he said he would not change his 1988
earnings estimate of 1.05 dlrs a share. Wang said he would look
closely at the combined operations of the two companies and cut
duplication in sales, marketing and research and development. Analysts
said Computer Associates paid a premium for Uccel. Based on Friday's
closing price, the company will swap 47.50 dlrs worth of its stock for
each Uccel share, which is nearly 33 times Uccel's 1987 estimated
earnings of 1.45 dlrs a share. Stephen T. McClellan of Merrill Lynch
Research said most software companies are currently valued at about 20
times per-share earnings. But the analyst said Uccel was worth the
premium because of its earnings potential and customer base. Wang said
Haefner, the Swiss investor, would hold about 25 pct of Computer
Associates stock after the merger. He currently owns 58 pct of Uccel.
The executive said the merger would not alter his target of
maintaining sales and earnings growth of 30 pct to 35 pct. In
addition, he said he expects no problems in having the deal cleared by
the antitrust division of the U.S. Justice Department. Uccel's
Liemandt declined to say what he will do after the merger, but he did
not rule out working together with Wang. Reuter 

SPIE BATIGNOLLES COULD INCREASE COMSTOCK HOLDING
    PARIS, April 8 - 
Construction group <Spie Batignolles> is negotiating to increase its
holding in U.S. Engineering and electrical installations firm
<Comstock>. Spie Batignolles, a subsidiary of Schneider SA <SCHN.PA>,
said in a statement it was negotiating to invest 20 mln dlrs in
Comstock in the form of bonds convertible into shares. Spie
Batignolles has held a 20 pct stake in Comstock since February 1986. A
spokesman said if Spie Batignolles converted all the new bonds, it
could open the way for the French company to take control of Comstock
but he gave no other details. Reuter 

LIBERTY FINANCIAL ANNOUNCES MERGER WITH EQUIMARK
    HORSHAM, Pa., June 18 - 
Liberty Financial Group Inc, the parent of Liberty Savings Bank said
it has signed a definitive agreement to be acquired by Equimark Corp
<EQK>, the parent of Equibank, for 48 dlrs a share of Liberty. The
transaction is structured as a merger of Liberty with a duly-formed
unit of Equimark, the company said. Liberty shareholders will receive
about 48 dlrs per share uopn the merger, the company said. According
to the companies, the acquisition is contingent upon the approval of
Liberty's shareholders and the appropriate regulatory authorities.
Liberty said the acquisition of its unit, Liberty Savings Bank, by
Equimark Corp, will result in the bank operating as a separate wholly
owned unit of Equimark. Charles Cheleden, chairman and president of
Liberty Financial and Liberty Savings, will continue as president and
chief executive officer of Liberty Savings, headquartered in Horsham,
Pa., the company said. Liberty said it feels that the price of 48 dlrs
in cash per share is attractive and that it has advised by Shearson
Lehman Brothers that the price is fair. Reuter 

NCNB <NCB> TO MERGE WITH (CENTRABANK)
    CHARLOTTE, N.C., June 2 - 
NCNB Corp said the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System
approved its application to merge with (CentraBank Inc) of Baltimore,
expected to be completed July 1. The company said the board's approval
included the dismissal of a protest by the Baltimore-based Maryland
Alliance for Responsible Investing against NCNB's performance under
the Community Reinvestment Act. The company said Maryland Alliance
wanted the merger blocked on the grounds that NCNB inadequately served
the credit and financial needs of low-income and minority communities
in its markets. The company said it denied the claim. Reuter 

CRAZY EDDIE <CRCY.O> WON'T OPPOSE SLATE
    EDISON, N.J., Oct 19 - 
Crazy Eddie Inc said its board will not oppose the slate of nominees
proposed for election to the board by the committee led by
Entertainment Marketing Inc <EM> and the <Oppenheimer-Palmieri Fund,
LP.> Crazy Eddie said its board is not endorsing, but will simply
refrain from opposing, the EMI-Palmieri nominees. The board also said
it will ask representatives of the Committee to Restore Shareholder
value to begin acquainting themselves with the business and affairs of
the company as promptly as possible. To that end, the committee's
representatives will be invited in advance of the annual meeting to
examine the company's financial records, to monitor its operations and
to join company officers in meetings with the company's suppliers,
bankers and key personnel, Crazy Eddie said. The board said that to
continue to oppose the EMI-Palmieri group would only increase the
expenses of the company, create further uncertainty among its
suppliers, customers and employees, and result in deterioration of
moral among company personnel. A further release from the company will
follow, it said. Reuter 

ERICSSON <ERICY.O> TO BUY REST OF SPANISH UNIT
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
L.M. Ericsson of Sweden said it agreed in principle to buy the 49 pct
of Intelsa, its Spanish unit, that it does not already own from
<Telefonica>, Spain's telecommunications administration. Terms of the
agreement were not disclosed. Ericsson said Intelsa, which controls
about 40 pct of the Spanish telephone switch market, has 2,400
employees and annual sales of 800 mln crowns, or 117 mln dlrs. "The
purchase will not affect the close working relationship between
Telefonica and Intelsa," Ericsson said. Reuter 

BARCO <BRC> BOARD APPROVES LEVERAGED BUYOUT
    GARDENA, Calif., June 19 - 
Bacro of California said its board approved an offer from its chairman
Kenneth Donner and President Michael Donner to purchase all the
outstanding Barco common shares at 5.05 dlrs per share in a leveraged
transaction. The Donners currently own about 44 pct of the company's
outstanding shares, Barco said. It also said vice chairman David
Grutman and family members, who own about 28 pct of Barco's shares,
have agreed to sell their stock for the offering price. Reuter 

SERVICE CORP <SRV> DUMPS CAPITAL SOUTHWEST STAKE
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
Service Corp International said its Investment Capital Corp unit sold
its entire 14.8 pct stake in Capital Southwest Corp <CSWC.O> common
stock, and no longer holds any Capital Southwest shares. In a filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Investment Capital said
it sold 280,000 shares of Capital Southwest common stock since
September 21 at 19.56 dlrs to 21.50 dlrs a share. No reason was given
for the recent sales. Reuter 

NATIONAL DISTILLERS <DR> TO SELL SPIRITS UNIT
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
National Distillers and Chemical Corp said it signed a definitive
agreement to sell its spirits division for 545 mln dlrs to James Beam
Distilling Co, a unit of American Brands Inc <AMB>. The sale of the
spirits division was made under the company's previously announced
plan to sell its spirits and wines businesses, it said. The wine
business was sold last month for 128 mln dlrs to Heublein Inc, part of
Grand Metropolitan PLC, National Distillers said. The purchase price
will be paid in cash, a National Distillers spokeswoman said. The sale
permits National to focus on its core businesses, chemicals and
propane marketing. Proceeds from the sale will be used to repay debt
and for other corporate purposes, the company said. In a separate
statement, American Brands said the sale would be for 545 mln dlrs
plus the assumption of liabilities. The sale would be subject to
compliance with the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and
other regulatory approvals, the company said. National's distilled
spirits business has sales of about 580 mln dlrs, American Brands
said. National's spirits brands include Gilbey's gin and vodka,
DeKuyper Liqueurs and Windsor Supreme Canadian Whisky. Reuter 

CRAZY EDDIE <CRZY> MAY MAKE ACQUISITION
    EDISON, N.J., April 13 - 
Crazy Eddie Inc said it is negotiating for the possible acquisition of
Benel Distributors Ltd, which operates Crazy Eddie Record and Tape
Asylums in all Crazy Eddie stores. It said the acquisition would
probably also include affiliate Disc-o-Mat Inc, which operates a
number of record and tape stores in the New York metropolitan area.
Other details were not disclosed. Reuter 





SAFEWAY AGREES TO SEVERANCE FOR DALLAS WORKERS
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
The United Food and Commercial Workers Union said unlisted Safeway Inc
has agreed to provide severance pay to about 5,000 workers in the
Dallas area resulting from the closure of a division last April. The
union said the total severance payment will be about five mln dlrs. It
said the division was closed as a result of 4.6 billion dlrs in debt
incurred from a leveraged buyout last year. The union said it filed
suit following the leveraged buyout to protect the claims of union
members. The leveraged buyout was implemented to ward off a bid by
Dart Group Corp <DARTA.O>. Reuter 

SICO <SIC.TO> TO BUY REICHOLD <RCI> UNIT ASSETS
     MONTREAL, June 19 - 
Sico Inc said it agreed in principle to buy the U.S. assets of
Reichold Chemicals Inc's Sterling Group, which manufactures electrical
insulation compounds and industrial resins and develops coatings for
the electronics industry. Terms were undisclosed. Sico said it
acquired Sterling Group's Canadian assets in February. It said the
U.S. acquisition adds about 15 mln dlrs to its annual sales volume.
Reuter 

CANADA'S WILSON HAS NO COMMENT ON DOME (DMP)
    OTTAWA, April 13 - 
Finance Minister Michael Wilson said it was too early to comment on
the tax implications of TransCanada PipeLines Ltd's 4.3 billion dlr
offer for Dome Petroleum Ltd. "The specific offer by TransCanada is
just in the course of being made and we don't have the details of all
the elements of the proposal," Wilson told the House of Commons daily
question period. Opposition parties were questioning Wilson about a
possible loss of tax revenue if the takeover was completed because of
the large tax credits held by Dome. Reuter 

HICKS/HAAS GROUP HAS SPECTRADYNE <SPDY.O> FUNDS
    DALLAS, June 1 - 
SPI Holding Inc, a group consisting of Hicks and Haas and Acadia
Partners LP, said it has received commitments for the senior bank
financing needed to complete its proposed acquisition of Spectradyne
Inc for 46 dlrs a share in cash or securities, or a total of about 452
mln dlrs. The transaction was conditioned on the arrangement fo
financing by today. It said it has also executed multi-year employment
and non-competition agreements with five Spectrayne senior managers.
Reuter 

MANAGEMENT GROUP HAS RESTAURANT <RA> MAJORITY
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Restaurant Associates Industries Inc said the management group led by
chairman Martin Brody and president Max Pine through October 16 had
received 1,796,727 Class A and 1,766,091 Class B shares in response to
its tender offer for all shares at 18 dlrs each, giving thema majority
of each class of shares. The company said the tender has been extended
until November 6. Reuter 

FLUOROCARBON <FCBN.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    LAGUNA NIGEL, Calif., June 1 - 
Fluorocarbon Co said it completed the acquisition of Eaton Corp's
<ETN> industrial polymer division. The company said it paid about 70
mln dlrs in cash for the division, which will be renamed Samuel Moore
Group. Fluorocarbon also said the division should boost annual sales
to 165 mln dlrs from last year's 98 mln dlrs. Reuter 

S.ATLANTIC <SOAF.O>, INDEPENDENCE <INHO.O> MERGE
    STAMFORD, Conn., April 13 - 
South Atlantic Financial Corp said it has agreed in principle to merge
with Independence Holding Co into a new company to be called SAFCO
International Ltd. It said each South Atlantic share would be
exchanged for one SAFCO share and each Independence share for 2.822
SAFCO shares. Independence now owns about 40 pct of South Atlantic's
9.8 mln primary common shares. South Atlantic said said its chairman
and chief executive officer Sheldon S. Gordon would have the same
posts with SAFCO and Independence president Ronald G. Strackbein would
be president of SAFCO. The company said the transaction is subject to
execution of definitive agreements, the receipt of fairness opinions
from investment banks and approval by boards and shareholders of both
companies. It said proxy materials are expected to be maioled this
quarter. Both South Atlantic and Independence are insurance companies.
Reuter 

<THERA-CARE INC> TO ACQUIRE CUSHING
    EL CAJON, Calif., April 13 - 
Thera-Care Inc said it agreed to acquire Cushing and Associates of
Glendale, Calif., in exchange for 1,480,000 Thera-Care shares. Reuter


FED ALLOWS CITICORP <CCI>, SEARS <S> THRIFT DEAL
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
The Federal Reserve Board said it approved Citicorp's application to
purchase through its subsidiary, Citicorp Savings of Oakland, Calif.,
some assets and assume some liabilities of Sears Savings Bank of
Glendale, Calif. Citicorp Savings proposed to assume two billion dlrs
in deposits and other liabilities and to purchase 1.9 billion dlrs in
assets of 50 branch offices of Sears Savings. The proposal involved
less than one third of the assets and liabilities of Sears Savings,
owned by Sears, Roebuck and Co <S>. The Fed said that it generally has
determined there were potentially adverse effects of allowing
affiliations of banks and savings and loan associations, although it
has allowed bank holding companies to acquire some failing thrifts. It
said Citicorp's proposal "properly may be viewed as the permissible
acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of S and L branches
rather than the acquisition of an S and L." Citicorp Savings, the
successor to the failed Fidelity Savings and Loan Association, has
assets of 4.9 billion dlrs and operates 86 branches in California,
mainly in the north. Sears Savings has 6.6 billion in assets and 91
branches predominantly in southern California. The application, which
was approved unanimously, will not eliminate Sears Savings as a
competitor, the Fed said. Reuter 

DIAMOND CRYSTAL <DSLT> MIGHT SELL SALT UNIT
    ST. CLAIR, Mich., April 9 - 
Diamond Crystal Salt Co said it might sell its salt division. The
company said it retained First Boston Corp to assist it with the
possible sale of the division, "assuming a fair price and reasonable
terms can be obtained." Diamond Crystal said sale of the unit was in
the best long-term interests of its shareholders. The company also
said it incorporated its Packet Products Division as of April one. The
unit will be an indirect wholly owned subsidiary called Diamond
Crystal Specialty Foods Inc. Current management of the division will
remain. Reuter 

NEW ENGLAND CRITICAL CARE <NECC.O> BUYS NPO
    MARLBOROUGH, Mass, June 19 - 
New England Critical Care Inc said it completed its purchase of NPO
Therapies Inc of Salt Lake City. The company said that NPO Therapies'
president and founder, Kelly Mutchie, has joined New England Critical
Care as regional vice president covering the western United States.
NPO Therapies provides home infusion therapy services. Reuter 

DOTRONIX <DOTX.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    NEW BRIGHTON, MINN, June 1 - 
Dotronix Inc said it completed the acquisition of Video Monitors Inc
for 3.92 mln dlrs. Video Monitors is a privately-owned Wisconsin-based
manufacturer of video display and and video monitor devices. Reuter 

CXR <CXRL.O>,TOROTEL <TRTL.O> TO SETTLE SUIT
    MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif, June 29 - 
CXR Telcom Corp and Torotel Inc agreed in principle to settle pending
litigation regarding the sale of Torotel's former Halcyon
Communications Inc unit to CXR in March, 1986, the two companies said
in a joint statement. The agreement calls for CXR to pay to Torotel
1,350,000 dlrs in exchange for return of a 2.5 mln dlr note and five
mln CXR common shares valued at 1,7754,000 mln dlrs, the companies
said. In June, 1986 CXR filed the suit in San Francisco federal court,
charging that the 10.3 mln dlr price it paid for Halycon was
excessive, Torotel said. It also said that in is suit CXR asked for
seven mln dlrs in damages, along with an unspecified punitive award.
Reuter 

MICROSEMI <MSCC.O> ACQUIRES HYBRID COMPONENTS
    SANTA ANA, Calif., June 19 - 
Microsemi Corp, a supplier of semiconductor products and assemblies,
said it has acquired the operating assets of <Hybrid Components Inc>
for 2.2 mln dlrs in cash. Microsemi said the purchase includes the
fixed assets, software, inventories, technology, intellectual
properties and other business operations of HCI. The company said HCI
will continue to operate its Beverly plant as a subsidiary of
Microsemi. Reuter 

BOEING <BA> STARTS ARGOSYSTEMS <ARGI.O> BID
    NEW YORK, June 2 - 
Boeing co said it has started the 37 dlr per share tender offer for
all shares of ARGOSystems Inc that it announced yesterday morning. In
a newspaper advertisement, the company said the offer, withdrawal
rights and proration deadline all expire June 30 unless extended. The
offer is not conditioned on receipt of any minimum number of shares,
Boeing said. If at least 90 pct of ARGOSystems' shares are tendered,
it said it will buy all shares, but if less than 90 pct are tendered,
it said it plans to buy only 49 pct in the offer. Boeing said if less
than 90 pct of ARGOSystems' shares are tendered, but the purchase of
all shares tendered along with the exercise of options it holds would
give it over 90 pct of ARGOSystems, Boeing may buy all shares
tendered. ARGOSystems has granted Boeing an option to buy up to
1,238,311 new shares or a 15.6 pct interest at 37 dlrs each, and
shareholders have granted Boeing an option to purchase up to 597,885
shares at the same price, or about 8.9 pct of those now outstanding,
without taking the company option into consideration. A merger at the
tender price that has been approved by the ARGOSystems board is to
follow the offer. Reuter 

SAN MIGUEL DEAL HIT BY MORE LAWSUITS
    MANILA, April 8 - 
A bid by San Miguel Corp (SMC) <SANM.MN> to buy back 38.1 mln
sequestered shares from United Coconut Planters Bank (UCPB) has been
hit by two new lawsuits, sources in the Philippine food and brewery
company said. A Manila court yesterday issued an injunction barring
UCPB from selling the shares, which represent 31 pct of SMC's
outstanding capital stock of 121 mln shares, until hearings on April
21 on a petition filed by Eduardo Cojuangco, a former chairman of both
SMC and UCPB. Cojuangco said the Coconut Industry Investment Fund
(CIIF) and 1.4 mln farmers were the rightful owners of the shares.
Cojuangco said the shares were held in trust by UCPB and represented a
blue chip investment. His petition said UCPB's plans to sell the
shares to SMC were "a serious breach of fiduciary duties." The SMC
sources said the proposed share sale could also be held up by a second
derivative suit filed before the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) by Eduardo de los Angeles, a government nominee on the company's
board. De los Angeles, who represents SMC's minority stockholders,
asked the SEC to block the transaction, approved last week by the
company's board. On April 2 the board sanctioned the repurchase of the
sequestered shares for 4.79 billion pesos at 126 pesos per share. De
los Angeles told the SEC the company's retained earnings of 1.33
billion pesos would be wiped out by the purchase of the shares and
would prevent the declaration of dividends. De los Angeles said the
share purchase would also violate an SMC agreement with its creditors
to maintain a 2.2-to-1 debt to equity ratio. He quoted SMC's chief
financial director Ramon del Rosario as telling the board that the
transaction would boost the ratio to 2.5-to-1. In petitioning the SEC,
de los Angeles amended an earlier suit two weeks ago in which he
charged SMC Chairman Andres Soriano III and nine other directors of
violating their duties. De los Angeles' earlier complaint related to
SMC assuming last December a 26.5 mln dlr loan contracted by SMC's
Hong Kong subsidiary <Neptunia Corp> for a down payment on the shares.
The loan assumption was again ratified by last week's board meeting.
An arbitration panel set up by President Corazon Aquino to resolve the
ownership issue is expected to submit its report by April 15. "The
amended suit filed by Eduardo de los Angeles is part of a continuing
attempt by certain elements, in complete disregard of the facts and
with questionable motives, to delay an early disposition of the
sequestered shares," San Miguel Corp said in a statement. "Coming as
it does, when San Miguel Corp and UCPB have reached agreement on the
price of the shares and the method of payment, this suit is in direct
contravention of the government's expressed desire to reach an
amicable settlement of the controversy by April 15," the statement
added. A San Miguel spokesman said he had no comment on Cojuangco's
court petition, adding: "Any statement coming from us might be
interpreted as adversarial." Meanwhile, Ramon Diaz, the head of a
government panel which sequestered the shares last year, said Soriano
was not eligible to buy the major portion of the shares because he was
a United States citizen. The sequestered shares are split into 24 mln
"A" shares, which can only be owned by Filipinos, and 14 mln "B"
shares which are available to foreign buyers. SMC sources said Soriano
personally was not among prospective buyers. They said the shares
would be purchased by the <A.Soriano> group of companies, SMC,
Neptunia and unnamed institutional investors. Soriano was named as one
of the buyers in a bid in March 1986 for 33 mln shares controlled by
UCPB. The sale was aborted when Diaz's Presidential Commission on Good
Government sequestered the shares on suspicion they were owned by
Cojuangco, a close associate of former President Ferdinand Marcos.
Cojuangco lives in self-imposed exile in the U.S.. The shares grew to
38.1 mln after a 15 pct stock dividend announced last June. "We have
no objection to Soriano buying the "B" shares," Diaz told Reuters.
"But everything is on hold now." The SMC spokesman said he did not
know if the controversy would be resolved before the company's annual
stockholders' meeting, scheduled for May 14. San Miguel Corp reported
sales revenue of 12.2 billion pesos in 1986, 11 pct above its 10.9
billion peso sales in 1985. It said unaudited net profit was in the
neighbourhood of 700 mln pesos, an increase of about 50 pct over 1985.
REUTER 

BOOTHE <BCMP.O> MAKES ACQUISITION
    SAN FRANCISCO, April 13 - 
Boothe Financial Corp, a diversified holding company, said it has
acquired the <Robert Half and Accountemps> franchises in New England,
including four offices in Boston and Eastern Massachusetts and one
office in Providence, R.I. Boothe said it previously announced the
purchase of <Robert Half International Inc> the franchisor of the
Robert Half and Accountemps offices in the U.S. The company said the
aggregate purchase price it paid for Robert Half International and the
franchises was about 59 mln dlrs. Reuter 

AMSOUTH BANCORP <ASO> SETS EXCHANGE RATIO
    BIRMINGHAM, Ala., April 13 - 
AmSouth Bancorp said it will issue about 3,166,000 shares of stock to
acquire First Tuskaloosa Corp. Under a previously announced merger
agreement, Amsouth offered 66 dlrs a share in Amsouth stock for First
Tuskaloosa. The company said First Tuskaloosa shareholders will
receive 1.978825 shares of Amsouth stock for each First Tuskaloosa
share held when the merger is effected April 17. First Tuskaloosa has
assets of more than 425 mln dlrs. Amsouth's assets are about six
billion dlrs. Reuter 

HENLEY GROUP SAID IT ENDED TALKS ON BUYING SOUTHERN PACIFIC FROM SANTA FE SOUTHERN 




PARTNERSHIP BUYS IPCO <IHS> STAKE OF 6.8 PCT
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
MP Co, a New York investment partnership, told the Securities and
Exchange Commission it bought a 6.8 pct stake in IPCO Corp common
stock. The partnership said it acquired 346,600 IPCO shares, paying
4.9 mln dlrs, because it believed the securities to be "an attractive
investment opportunity." It said it planned to regularly review its
investment and may in the future recommend business strategies or an
extraordinary corporate transaction such as a merger, reorganization,
liquidation or asset sale. The partnership is controlled by Marcus
Schloss and Co Inc, a New York brokerage firm, and Prime Medical
Products Inc, a Greenwood, S.C., medical supplies firm. Reuter 

BARCO DIRECTORS APPROVE BUYOUT OFFER FROM SENIOR
MANAGEMENT
 




INDUSTRIAL EQUITY TO MAKE PROPOSAL TO CALMAT<CZM>
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd, a Hong Kong-based investment firm
leading a group holding 19.1 pct of Calmat Co's common stock, said it
intends to submit to Calmat a proposal for a possible business
combination. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Industrial Equity (Pacific) did not disclose details of the proposal,
but said it would be delivered to Calmat in the near future.
Industrial Equity (Pacific) "does not intend to remain a passive
investor" in Calmat, the firm told the SEC. In its SEC filing,
Industrial Equity (Pacific) said its president of North American
operations Ronald Langley met with Calmat officials on October 14 to
discuss an acquisition of the company at a premium over the market
price of Calmat stock. Industrial Equity (Pacific) added it is
considering launching a tender offer for Calmat stock or making a
merger proposal to the company, but said it has not decided whether it
will pursue a Calmat acquisition on a non-negotiated basis. Industrial
Equity (Pacific), which currently holds 5.83 mln Calmat common shares,
said it is also evaluating the company's recently adopted shareholder
rights plan and its potential effect on Calmat and on possible
acquisition proposals made to the company. Between October 2 and 14,
Industrial Equity (Pacific) bought 918,900 shares of Calmat common
stock at 33 dlrs to 37.55 dlrs a share, or a total of about 33.8 mln
dlrs. Reuter 

WINN ENTERPRISES <WNN> UNIT SELLS DAIRY
    LOS ANGELES, April 9 - 
Winn Enterprises' Knudsen Foods Inc said it entered an agreement to
sell its Hawaiian dairy operations to Foremost Foods Inc for 13 mln
dlrs cash. The company said the purchase price is subject to
adjustment and the entire transaction is subject to approval by the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California. Reuter 

BANC ONE <ONE> MAKES INDIANA ACQUISITION
    COLUMBUS, Ohio, June 2 - 
Banc One Corp said it has completed the acquisition of First National
Bank of Bloomington, Ind, which has assets of 271 mln dlrs. Reuter 

MAGELLAN SETS MERGER WITH BALZAC INVESTMENTS
    DALLAS, June 18 - 
<Magellan Corp> said its shareholders approved the merger of Magellan
with <Balzec Investments Inc>, a privately held company based in
Dallas. Magellan, a company without operations that was formed to
acquire an operating entity, said it plans to engage in the
development and marketing of a battery charger product owned by
Balzac. Magellan did not disclose the terms of the agreement.
Following the merger, Balzac shareholders will hold 80 pct of the
outstanding stock of Magellan, the company said. Magellan said it will
be the surviving corporation following the merger. The companies said
they expect the merger will occur after the declaration of
effectiveness of an amendment to Magellan's registration statement
relating to its common stock purchase warrants and the underlying
shares. Reuter 

BRENT TO BUY LONRHO DIVISION, PROPOSES RIGHTS
    LONDON, June 29 - 
<Brent Walker Group Plc> said it had agreed to buy the group of
companies comprising Lonrho Plc's <LRHO.L> Metropole Casino Division,
together with a freehold in central London, for 121.55 mln stg.
Payment will be in cash on completion except for three mln stg payable
on December 1, 1988. Brent said it also proposed to raise about 126
mln stg net through the issue of 131.67 mln convertible shares at one
stg each. The shares can be converted between 1990 and 2002 at the
rate of four ordinary shares for every 15 convertibles held. On full
conversion, the issued ordinary share capital of the company would
increase by some 64 pct. <Birdcage Walk Ltd>, a company controlled by
the Walker family, owns 20.68 pct of the shares and is entitled to
27.2 mln convertible shares under the offer. The trustees had
indicated that it intended to sell enough of the convertibles, nil
paid, to enable it to take up the remainder. Brent would buy the
casino companies and the freehold of 45, Park Lane in London. Under
the arrangements, it would also arrange for the repayment of 6.45 mln
stg in inter-company debt. Brent Walker shares firmed sharply on the
announcement to 385p from 353p at Friday's close, while Lonrho also
firmed, to 275p from 265.5p. REUTER 

GAF CORP SAID MANAGEMENT GROUP TO RECONSIDER ACQUISITION PROPOSAL




CHRYSLER <C> HAS NO PLANS TO RAISE BID
    DETROIT, June 19 - 
Chrysler Corp said it has no intention of increasing its offer for
Electrospace Systems Inc <ELE>. Chrysler agreed to purchase the Texas-
based defense electronics contractor in a tender offer of 27 dlrs a
share for a total value of about 367 mln dlrs. Eletrospace shares
closed yesterday on the NYSE at 30-1/8. "We have no intention of
increasing the offer," a company spokeswoman said. "We believe it is
adequate and will be accepted." She said the proposed transaction was
unanimously recommended by the board of directors and principal
shareholders of Electrospace. Further, she noted that the 27 dlrs
tender offer price is 50 pct above the price of Electrospace's shares
before April 30 when it put itself up for sale. Reuter 

COLONIAL BANCGROUP <CLBGA> MAKES ACQUISITION
    MONTGOMERY, Ala., April 9 - 
Colonial BancGroup said it has signed letter of intent to acquire
Community Bank and Trust of Hartselle, Ala., with assets of 26 mln
dlrs, for undisclosed terms, subject to approval by regulatory
authorities and Community Bank shareholders. Completion is expected
within the next year, it said. Reuter 

KRAFT <KRA> COMPLETES FROSTEX ACQUISITION
    GLENVIEW, Ill., June 29 - 
Kraft Inc said it completed the acquisition of Frostex Foods Inc for
undisclosed terms. Kraft said last month it had signed a letter of
intent to acquire the Austin, Texas-based foodservice distributor.
Reuter 

SERVICE RESOURCES <SRC> ENDS SORG <SRG> BID
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Service Resources Corp said it has withdrawn and terminated its 23 dlr
per share takeover offer to Sorg Inc because Sorg failed to respond to
the bid. It said, as Sorg's largest single shareholder, it will
evaluate all its options, including making a further offer to Sorg or
disposing of some or all of its Sorg shares. Reuter 

PAN AM <PN> SETS PACIFIC SATELLITE STAKE SALE
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
<Johnson Geneva U.S.A.> said it has agreed to buy Pan Am Corp's 50 pct
holding in their joint venture company, Pan Am Pacific Satellite Corp,
for undisclosed terms. Johnson Geneva said Pan Am divested owership in
the project as part of a corporate restructuring plan, but will
continue to provide engineering services on a contract basis. Johnson
Geneva said the buy out was accomplished through <Onpraise Ltd>, a
Hong Kong company controlled by Johnson Geneva Chairman Michael
Johnson. Funds have been provided by Onpraise to increase the
satellite company's working capita. Reuter 

WAL-MART <WMT> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    BENTONVILLE, Ark, June 29 - 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc said it has completed the acquisition of <Super
Saver Warehouse Inc> and Super Saver is now a wholly owned unit of
Wal-Mart. Reuter 

GULF AND WESTERN <GW> UPS INTEREST IN NETWORK
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
USA Network, today said it has acquired Time Inc's <TL> one-third
interest in the network. The network, formerly a joint venture between
Time, Gulf and Western Inc and MCA Inc <MCA>, said that Gulf and
Western and MCA, who each previously held a one-third interest, now
will jointly own USA Network on a 50/50 basis. Terms were not
disclosed, USA Network said. USA Network is an advertiser-supported,
entertainment basic cable network, reaching 39 mln homes on 8,500
cable systems. Reuter 

ALLIED-SIGNAL <ALD> COMPLETES SALE OF MPB CORP
    MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., June 1 - 
Allied-Signal Inc said it completed the sale of its MPB Corp unit to
Bearing Acquisition Corp for 145 mln dlrs plus assumption of certain
MPB liabilities. Headquartered in Keene, N.H., MPB designs and makes
precision ball and roller bearings used in aerospace, ordnance and
computer applications. Allied-Signal said the unit had 1986 sales of
over 90 mln dlrs. It noted the sale to newly formed Bearing
Acquisition was announced May 18. Allied-Signal said Bearing
Acquisition is a newly-formed corporation owned by an investors group
organized by Harold S. Geneen and Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette
Securities Corp. Wells Fargo Bank provided senior debt financing to
Bearing Acquisition and Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette provided bridge
financing in the form of subordinated notes, preferred stock and
common stock in an amount sufficient to fund the purchase price,
Allied-Signal added. Reuter 

CAL FED INCOME <CFI> BUYS TWO SHOPPING CENTERS
    LOS ANGELES, Oct 19 - 
Cal Fed Income Partners L.P. said it has acquired two shopping centers
for a total price of 18.4 mln dlrs. The company said it bought Best
Plaza Shopping Center in Pleasanton, Calif., For 12 mln dlrs and
Bristol Place Shopping Center in Santa Ana, Calif., for 16.4 mln dlrs.
Reuter 

METRO AIRLINES <MAIR.O> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    DALLAS, June 19 - 
Metro Airlines Inc said it has agreed in principle to acquire
privately held Chaparral Airlines inc for 5,700,000 dlrs in cash.
Chaparral provides regularly scheduled service out of Dallas/Fort
Worth Regional Airport as an affiliated carrier of AMR Corp <AMR> and
had revenues in 1986 of 14.1 mln dlrs. Reuter 

C.O.M.B. <CMCO> MAKES ACQUISITION
    PLYMOUTH, Minn., April 9 - 
C.O.M.B. Co said it has acquired the principal assets of National Tech
Industries Inc and Telkom Corp, which are engaged in the sale and
telemarketing of consumer electronic merchandise and do business as
House of Imports and N.L. Industries respectively. The company said it
paid a total of 8,700,000 dlrs, including the assumption of
liabilities. National Tech had sales of about 23 mln dlrs for 1986, it
said. Reuter 

ENTERTAINMENT MARKETING SEEKS TO BUY CRAZY EDDIE FOR EIGHT DLRS A SHARE




DEL WEBB <WBB> UNIT SELLS JOINT VENTURE STAKE
    PHOENIX, Ariz., April 13 - 
Del E. Webb Corp said its Del E. Webb Properties Corp unit sold one-
half of its interest in the 224-acre Towne Meadows mixed-use
development near Mesa and Gilbert, Ariz., to Klukwan Inc, an Alaskan
native cooperative. Terms of the sale were not disclosed. Webb said it
had a one-half interest in the venture. Reuter 

THOMSON GRAND PUBLIC TAKES OVER THORN EMI'S AUDIOVISUAL
DIVISION - THOMSON




COMPUTER ASSOCIATES <CA> STARTS BPI <BPII> BID
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
Computer Associates International Inc said it has started its
previously-announced 1.92 dlr per share tender offer for all shares of
BPI Systems Inc. In a newspaper advertisement, the company said the
offer, which has been approved by the BPI board and is to be followed
by a merger at the same price, is conditioned on receipt of at least
1,813,742 shares. The offer and withdrawal rights expire May 15 unless
extended. In addition to shares sought in the tender, shareholders of
BPI owning 1,951,720 shares or 34.6 pct have agreed to sell their
shares to Computer Associates for the tender price. Reuter 

CYCARE SYSTEMS INC <CYCR> BUYS MEDTEC
    PHOENIX, Ariz, June 29 - 
CyCare Systems Inc said it bought Control Data Corp's <CDA> MedTec
unit for an undisclosed sum. The company said MedTec's new client base
could have a significant impact on long-term revenues, although it
expects a minimal positive impact on earnings in the next six months.
It said the assets purchased include processing agreements, software
maintenance contracts and the supporting software. Reuter 

CENTEL <CNT> COMPLETES SALE
    CHICAGO, June 2 - 
Centel Corp said it completed the sale of its water properties serving
8,000 customers in four southwestern Kansas communities to Central
Kansas Utility Co of Columbia, Mo. Terms were not disclosed. Reuter 

WOOLWORTH <Z> COMPLETING TENDER OFFER
    NEW YORK, Oct. 19 - 
FW Woolworth and Co said that 2,223,996 shares of Armel Inc's <AML>
common stock were tendered to and accepted for payment by Woolworth,
under the terms of the previosuly announced cash tender offer which
expired at 2400 midnight EDT on October 16. In addition, Woolowrth
said 137,367 Armel shares have been tendered subject to guaranteed
delivery. Woolowrth said as a result of the tender offer and options
which it has exercised to purchase Armel stock, FWW Acquisiton Corp, a
Woolworth unit, today expects to own about 91.75 pct of Amrel's
outstanding stock. Woolworth said the percent it owns does not include
583,650 Class A shares of Armel, which were tendered or will be
purchased pursuant to the options. As previuosly announced, FWW will
now proceed with the cash merger in which all shares of Armel, other
than those held by FWW or Woolworth, will be entitled to receive 7.75
dlrs per share. Woolworth said it expects to consummate the deal later
this year. Armel is a specialty retailer of a broad line of athletic
and leisure footwear, accessories and other sportswear. Reuter 

BASIX CORP <BAS> TO SELL UNIT TO CUBIC <CUB>
    NEW YORK, June 2 - 
BASIX Corp said it has agreed in principle to sell the stock of its
Automatic Toll Systems Inc subsidiary to Cubic Corp for about 26 mln
dlrs. The company said it would retain Automatic Toll assets worth
about nine mln dlrs to dispose of over time. The company said
completion of the transaction is subject to approval by both boards
and BASIX's banks and the expiration of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting
period. Reuter 

SETON <SEL> DIRECTORS APPROVE MERGER AGREEMENT
    NEWARK, N.J., June 29 - 
Seton Co said its board of directors unanimously approved an agreement
and plan of merger providing for the merger of Seton with a unit of S
Acquisition Corp, a New Jersey company. Seton said its board of
directors unanimously approved the merger in a meeting held today.
Seton said the agreement and plan of merger provides that all shares
of Seton Co common stock not held by S Acquisition Corp, or its units,
will be converted upon the merger into the right to receive 15.88 dlrs
per share in cash. Reuter 

GAF <GAF> TO PURCHASE UP TO 21 PCT OF STOCK
    WAYNE, N.J., Oct 20 - 
GAF Corp said its board has authorized the repurchase from time to
time of up to seven mln of its common shares, or about 21 pct, for
cash in open market purchases or private transactions. The company
said it repurchased 2,100,000 shares under an April authorization to
buy back up to three mln shares and authorization for further
repurchases under the old program has been withdrawn. Yesterday, GAF
said a group led by chairman Samuel J. Heyman has decided to
reconsider its offer to acquire GAF. GAF said a revised offer by the
group is still possible. Reuter 

ENTERTAINMENT MARKETING TOPS CRAZY EDDIE OFFER
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
A quickly growing Texas-based distributor of electronics products
offered 240 mln dlrs for Crazy Eddie Inc <crzy>, the leading New York
City electronics retailer, or one dlr per share more than its founder
has bid. The 8-dlr-a-share offer by Entertainment Marketing Inc <em>
for Crazy Eddie comes less than two weeks after founder Eddie Antar
and a firm controlled by the Belzbergs of Canada announced a bid to
take the 32-store Crazy Eddie chain private. Analysts said
Entertainment Marketing, whose revenues and profits quadrupled in
1986, may be looking to break into the highly competitive New York
City retail market for consumer electronics, the nation's biggest, at
a time the fortunes of electronics retailers have sagged. The analysts
questioned whether Houston-based Entertainment Marketing, founded by a
former electronics retailer but whose present buinesses are primarily
as wholesale distributors, had the management expertise for retailing
or was merely trying to drive up the price of the Crazy Eddie shares
it already owns. "I have mixed feelings," said analyst Dennis Telzrow
of Eppler, Geurin and Turner, a Dallas brokerage. "On the one hand
it's probably a cheap price. On the other hand, does Entertainment
Marketing have the management talent to run it and will the Crazy
Eddie people leave?" "It's a risky strategy for Entertainment
Marketing," said analyst Eliot Laurence of Wessels Arnold and
Henderson, a Minneapolis brokerage. "Electronics retailing is very
management concentrated; they'd want to keep Crazy Eddie's management
in place." Laurence said that, since Entertainment Marketing already
owns 4.3 percent of Crazy Eddie's 31.3 million shares, it may be
trying to get the Antar-Belzberg group to increase its 7-dlr-a-share
offer. Shares of Crazy Eddie, which have jumped from the high 4-dlr
range to above 7 dlrs since the Antar-Belzberg bid was announced May
20, rose another 50 cents Monday to 8.375 a share in over-the- counter
trading. Antar, the reclusive founder of the chain in the New York
City, Philadelphia and Connecticut areas, said last month that his
group controlled 14 percent of Crazy Eddie's shares. A Crazy Eddie
spokesman said the company's board has taken no decision on the Antar-
Belzberg offer, worth some 187 mln dlrs since they own more shares
than Entertainment Marketing. He would not comment on the new offer.
Entertainment Marketing sells computer products such as disk drives
and other, often discounted electronics goods to retailers, primarily
in the southwest, and directly to consumers by cable television. In
fiscal 1986, ending last January, its revenues rose to 87.9 mln dlrs
from 21.3 mln dlrs the previous year. Net profit went to 3.2 mln dlrs
from 750,000 dlrs in 1985. Entertainment Marketing, whose chief
executive officer, Elias Zinn, once ran an electronics retailing
business, said in a statement it had committed 50 mln dlrs toward the
purchase of Crazy Eddie and had retained Dean Witter Reynolds Inc to
assist in financing the balance. Analyst Telzerow estimated that the
company would have to borrow about 100 mln dlrs to complete the
proposed buyout since Crazy Eddie has cash and other assets worth
about the same amount. Shares of Entertainment Marketing were up 12.5
cents Monday to 9.50. Reuter 

A.H. ROBINS SAYS RORER GROUP MERGER PROPOSAL MERITS
FURTHER CONSIDERATION




PIOSEC <PIO.AL> ACQUIRES SEMICONDUCTOR STAKE
    VANCOUVER, B.C., May 31 - 
Piosec Technology Ltd said it exchanged 4.5 mln common shares for 21
pct of privately owned <Alliance Semiconductor Corp> of Santa Clara,
Calif. Followin the acquisition, a Piosec spokesman said, the company
has 6.5 mln shares outstanding. Reuter 

HANSON <HAN> TO BUY INT'L PROTEIN <PRO> STOCK
    FAIRFIELD, N.J., April 9 - 
International Proteins Corp said it has agreed to sell in a private
placement 330,000 common shares at 11.75 dlrs a share to a U.S.
subsidiary of Hanson Trust Plc. In addition, David Clarke the
president of another Hanson Trust subsidiary, Hanson Industries, will
be named chairman of International Proteins's executive committee upon
his election to the board at the annual meeting. International
Proteins recently acquired Clarke's family business, Great South Beach
Sales Co, for 900,000 restricted common shares of which 350,000 have
been issued to date. International Proteins said its agreement with
Hanson Trust is subject to stockholder approval at the annual meeting
which is expected to be held in June. The company said Hanson Trust is
purchasing the stock for investment purposes, adding the agreement
includes restrictions on purchase or sale of the company by Hanson for
the next five years. International Proteins said it will use the
proceeds to expand domestic operations. The company has about 2.1 mln
shares outstanding. Reuter 

DILLARD DEPARTMENT STORES AGREES TO BUY TWO ALLIED STORES UNITS FOR 255 MLN DLRS CASH




FIRST CITY INDUSTRIES SELLS YALE AND NUTONE UNITS FOR 400 MLN DLRS AND SECURITIES




BASTIAN TECHNOLOGIES SAYS IT HAS FIVE PCT OF COSMO COMMUNICATIONS, MAY SEEK CONTROL




EDELMAN GROUP CUTS BURLINGTON <BUR> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
New York investor Asher Edelman and Dominion Textile Inc <DTX.T>, who
are currently seeking to acquire Burlington Industries Inc in a
hostile tender offer, said they lowered their stake in the company. In
a filing with the Secruties and Exchange Commission, the
Edelman/Dominion group, known as Samjens Acqusition Corp, said it sold
options to buy 258,800 Burlington common shares, reducing its stake in
the company to 3,408,813 shares, or 12.33 pct, from 3,667,313 shares,
or 13.3 pct. The group said the sale, which represented all the
Burlington options it owned, was made May 28 for 8.7 mln dlrs. The
Edelman/Dominion group last week sweetened its hostile tender offer to
77 dlrs a share, after Burlington agreed to a leveraged buyout by a
Morgan Stanley and Co-backed group for 76 dlrs a share. But the
Edelman/Dominion group, which has litigation pending against
Burlington, also said it has held talks with Morgan Stanley about "the
possibility of settlement of outstanding matters among" it, Morgan
Stanley and Burlington. Reuter 

WEDGESTONE REALTY <WDG> ACQUISITION APPROVED
    NEWTON, Mass., April 8 - 
Wedgestone Realty Investors Trust said shareholkders have approved the
acquisition of its advisor, Wedgestone Advisory Corp, for 600,000
shares. It said completion is expected to take place April 10. Reuter


ALLIED STORES <ALS> SELLS DILLARD <DDS> TWO UNITS
    New York, April 13 - 
Dillard Department Stores Inc, based in Little Rock, Ark., and Allied
Stores Corp jointly said they entered a definitive purchase agreement
for the sale to Dillard of the Joske's and the Cain-Sloan divisions of
Allied for 255 mln dlrs cash, subject to certain closing adjustments.
The sale excludes certain real estate assets of Joske's and Cain-
Sloan, which Allied estimates have an aggregate value of 30 mln dlrs
based on current market conditions. Joske's has 26 stores in Texas and
one in Arizona. Cain-Sloan has four stores in Nashville. Joske's is
the largest unit Allied has slated for sale in its restructuring.
Allied Stores Corp, a subsidiary of Campeau Corp, was acquired by
acquired by the Canadian developer last year. Robert Campeau, chairman
of Allied, said "this is a terrific start to our disposition program
which is proceeding well ahead of schedule. This sale will fulfill the
requirements under our bank agreements to sell certain assets by June
30 and give us additional flexibility in the disposal of the remaining
divisions being sold." Allied Stores is required to pay 200 mln dlrs
in bank debt by June 30. There had been some doubts on Wall Street
that the company could meet the payment. A Campeau source said, "We
believe this cash sale puts us in a very strong negotiating position
to maximize the proceeds Allied can receive from its other divisions."
"Allied was able to put itself in a position where it knows it will be
able to meet the June 30 payment schedules," the source said. About
1.1 bilion dlrs in Allied assets had been targeted for sale by Dec.
31, 1988 to pay for the aquisition of Allied by Campeau. Allied will
be taking bids for its other divisions. Targeted for sale are Bonwit
Tellers, Garfinckel's, Dey's, Donaldson's, Herpolsheimer's, Heer's,
Miller's, Miller and Rhoads, Pomeroy's, Catherine's, Plymouth Shops,
and Jerry Leonard. The divisions provided 38.4 pct of Allied net sales
and 11.8 pct of store profit in fiscal 1985. Reuter 

TAFT BROADCASTING <TFB> COMPLETES STATION SALE
    VIRGINIA BEACH, Va., April 9 - 
TVX Broadcast Group Inc <TVXG> said it has completed the previously-
announced purchase of five Taft television stations. Last week, TVX
said the sale, which was scheduled to close then, had been delayed.
Taft said the purchase price was 240 mln dlrs, as previously
announced. The price is subject to final adjustments, Taft said. Taft
did not indicate the size of the gain, if any, it would post on the
sale. It said the stations are WTAF-Philadelphia, WDCA-Washington,
WCIX-Miami, KTXA-Dallas and KTXH-Houston. Reuter 

FIFTH THIRD <FITB.O> TO MERGE WITH C AND H
    CINCINNATI, Oct 19 - 
Fifth Third Bancorp and <C and H Bancorp> said they reached a
preliminary agreement to merge. C and H Bancorp has assets of 257 mln
dlrs and is the parent company of Citizens Heritage Bank N.A. The
companies said the agreement calls for each of the about one mln
shares of C and H Bancorp to be exchanged for one share of Fifth Third
Bancorp. Based on its financial expectations, Fifth Third said the
dilution in per share earnings for the merger will be negligible.
Reuter 

MR. ROOTER <ROOT.O> RESCINDS UNITED WESTERN PACT
    OKLAHOMA CITY, June 18 - 
Mr. Rooter Corp said it rescinded a recent agreement calling for
<United Western Energy Corp> to to buy a majority of Mr. Rooter's
stock for four dlrs a share. The company said it has also demanded
repayment of a 150,000 dlr loan made to United Western. Since
announcing the agreements, Mr. Rooter said, it discovered additional
information relating to United Western and the unaffiliated privately
held corporation which had guaranteed all of United Western's
obligations under the agreements. Mr. Rooter said the agreements were
rescinded d"in light of this additional information," without
providing details. It said talks are in progress with United Western
with regard to the repayment terms of the loan. Reuter 

JUSTICE OPPOSES QUICK GREYHOUND-TRAILWAYS MERGER
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
The Justice Department said it asked the government to proceed
cautiously on a plan allowing the nation's two largest intercity bus
companies to merge their operations, a move one of the firms said may
derail the deal. Justice's opposition to quick federal approval of a
bid by Greyhound Lines Inc to take immediate control Trailways Corp
prompted Greyhound to threaten -- in a brief filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission (ICC) -- to drop the merger plan. Greyhound
officials told Reuters late today the company hoped for ICC action on
the merger by tomorrow. "Greyhound Lines will go forward with the
transaction only if it is permitted to assume immediate, unconditional
control of Trailways' operations and to integrate them with its
operations," Greyhound said in a filing with the ICC, the federal
regulatory agency which has the final say over mergers of interstate
bus companies. But Justice had said in an earlier filing with the ICC
that it wanted the agency to move slowly on the plan and to turn down
Greyhound's request to begin operating Trailways immediately. "The
department has just begun to receive relevant information on
Trailways' financial condition and is in the process of assessing the
correctness of the company's allegations," acting Assistant Attorney
General Charles Rule said in comments submitted to the ICC. Greyhound
announced June 19 that it wanted the ICC to let it begin operating
Trailways immediately while continuing to evaluate the merger for
possible antitrust problems. Greyhound said it would pay 80 mln dlrs
for many of Trailways' terminals, buses and garages. The two companies
said in papers filed with the ICC that Trailways "could collapse in a
matter of days." They said Trailways owed suppliers more than six mln
dlrs, with another six mln dlrs due June 30. The suppliers, they said,
could force Trailways into bankruptcy "at any time." Trailways also
owes a consortium of banks 76 mln dlrs, and the consortium has
threatened to call the loan if Trailways fails to pay the interest due
June 30, they said. Reuter 

CRANE <CR> ACQUIRES ASSETS OF MARLEY UNIT
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Crane Co said it acquired certain assets of Chicago Heater Co Inc, a
wholly owned subsidiary of the <Marley Co>. The terms of the
transaction were not disclosed. Chicago Heater will be intergrated
with Crane's Cochrane Environment Systems division, the company said.
Reuter 

ITALY'S AGIP PETROLI BUYS STAKE IN U.S. COMPANY
    ROME, June 2 - 
State oil firm Agip Petroli Spa said it has acquired a 50 pct stake in
Steuart Petroleum Co, an independent U.S. Oil products company.
Financial terms were not disclosed. Agip Petroli, a subsidiary of
state energy concern Ente Nazionali Idrocarburi, said in a statement
that the remaining 50 pct of the U.S. Firm is owned by Steuart
Investment Co, a holding company that also operates in the sectors of
transportation, hotels and insurance. The Italian firm said Steuart
Petroleum operates primarily on the East Coast. REUTER 

DINNER BELL <DINB.O> LEVERAGE BUY OUT DROPPED
    DEFIANCE, Ohio, Oct 20 - 
Dinner Bell Foods Inc said the talks concerning a proposed leveraged
buy-out of the company have been terminated. A spokesman said the
group led by Joseph F. Grimes II, a director of the company, and B.
Rober Kill has withdrawn their proposal to acquire the company's stock
for 23.50 dlrs a share. The company also said its board determined the
previously postponed annual meeting will be held on January five.
Reuter 

WICKES <WIX> COMPLETES PURCHASE
    SANTA MONICA, Calif, June 2 - 
Wickes Cos Inc said it has completed the purchase of Dura Corp for an
undisclosed amount. Dura, a supplier of automotive equipment, had
annual sales of over 100 mln dlrs. Reuter 

STANDARD OIL SAYS BRITISH PETROLEUM SHARE TENDER EXTENDED UNTIL MAY 4




HILLSDOWN BUYS BEDDING COMPANIES FOR 23 MLN DLRS
    LONDON, April 13 - 
Hillsdown Holdings Plc <HLDN.L> said its Christie-Tyler Ltd unit would
buy the European bedding making interests of Simmons Co U.S.A., Owned
by Gulf and Western Industries Inc USA <GW>, for 23 mln dlrs. The
acquisitions include <Sleepeeze Ltd> in the U.K., <Compagnie
Continentale Simmons SA> in France and <Compagnia Italiana Simmons
SpA> in Italy. In 1986 the three businesses made pre-tax profit of
around 2.5 mln stg on sales of 39 mln stg. Net assets being acquired
come to around nine mln stg. Hillsdown shares were unchanged at 266p.
REUTER 

<RESER'S FINE FOODS INC> TO GO PRIVATE
    PORTLAND, Ore., Oct 20 - 
Reser's Fine Foods Inc said certain directors and officers, who
currently represent about 85 pct of the company's stock, plan to take
Reser's private through a cash buyout. The company said the group
plans to offer 12.50 dlrs per share for the 15 pct of its stock
currently outstanding. Reuter 

GUINNESS COMPLETES UNIT SALES WORTH 232.6 MLN STG
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
Guinness Plc <GUIN.L> said it has completed the sale of subsidiaries
<Martin CTN Group Plc> and <Drummonds Pharmacy Group Plc>. Total
consideration was 232.6 mln stg, subject to adjustment on final audit,
which is expected to add 12 mln stg, Guinness said. Martins has been
sold to <Panfida Ltd> an Australian investment company, and Drummonds
to <Macarthy Plc>. Reuter 

BALTEK <BTEK.O> BUYS ECUADORIAN PLANT
    NORTHVALE, N.J., Oct 19 - 
Baltek Corp said it has acquired a shrimp packing plant in Ecuador for
undisclosed terms. The company said the acquisition will result in a
tripling of its Ecuadorian shrimp sales to about three mln pounds
annually by 1988. Reuter 

TRACE PRODUCTS <TRCE.O> MERGER AGREEMENT SUSPENDED
    SAN JOSE, Calif., - 
Trace Products Inc said its stock-swap merger agreement with privately
held Central Point Software has been suspended indefinitely because of
uncertainty in the stock market. Trace Products, which manufactures
diskette and tape duplication equipment for software publishers, had
earlier agreed to acquire Portland, Ore.-based Central Point for 5.5
mln shares of its common stock. Reuter 

CABLE AND WIRELESS RESTRUCTURES H.K. UNITS
    HONG KONG, Oct 19 - 
Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L> said its subsidiary <Hong Kong
Telephone Co Ltd> would cease to be a listed company, following the
restructure of the company's Hong Kong units. Earlier today the
company announced that Hong Kong Telephone and Cable and Wireless Hong
Kong, in which the territory's government has a 20 pct stake, would
become subsidiaries of a newly formed holding company, Hong Kong
Telecommunications. In exchange for the Cable and Wireless Hong Kong
capital, Hong Kong Telecommunications will issue 4.18 billion new
shares to Cable and Wireless Plc's Cable and Wireless (Far East) Ltd.
That subsidiary now holds the group's 80 pct stake in Cable and
Wireless Hong Kong and about 22 pct of H.K. Telephone. It will issue
an additional 1.05 billion shares to the goverment. That will leave
the Cable and Wireless group with an 80 pct stake in Hong Kong
Telecommunications, the government 11 pct and nine pct in public
hands. But that will be reduced early next year after a placement of
11 pct of the issued shares of Hong Kong Telecommunications by both
Cable and Wireless and the government. Reuter 

LYNCH <LGL> PLANS OFFER FOR BECOR <BCW> STOCK
    NEW YORK, June 2 - 
Lynch Corp said it will offer 10.50 dlrs a share in cash, 4.50 dlrs in
subordinated debentures and a 1/4 share in a new company for each
Becor Western Inc share outstanding. Lynch said its proposed offer
"substantially improves" over the offer of 10.45 dlrs a share in cash
and 4.00 dlrs of senior sinking fund debentures made by BCW
Acquisition Inc, formed by Becor's management. Lynch Chairman Mario
Gabelli, who heads a group which owns 12.35 pct of Becor's 16.5 mln
outstanding shares, said the Lynch bid "is about one dlr better than
the present offer." Gabelli previously said in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission he felt the Becor managment buyout
was unfar. The Lynch officer said he was invited by other Becor
shareholders to make an offer. Following sale of Becor's aerospace
subsidiary in February, the management group led by President William
Winter announced plans for a 238.1 mln dlr leveraged buyout. was
planning to take Becor for about 238.1 mln dlrs. A shareholder vote on
the buyout offer is scheduled for June four. Reuter 

AUSTRALIA'S ANSETT TO TAKE 20 PCT OF AMERICA WEST
    SYDNEY, June 18 - 
Australia's <Ansett Airlines> will exercise an option to acquire 20
pct of America West Airlines Inc <AWAL.O> for about 31.5 mln U.S.
Dlrs, <Ansett Transport Industries Ltd> managing director Peter Abeles
said. Exercise, involving the purchase of about three mln new America
West shares for 10.50 U.S. Dlrs each, was scheduled to be finalised in
July or August, he said in a statement. Abeles said Ansett would
become the largest single shareholder in what he said was the fastest
growing airline in the United States. America West is based in
Phoenix, Arizona. Under the terms of the option agreement, Ansett
would have the right to maintain its 20 pct position in the event of
future stock sales, but could not go beyond 20 pct unless so requested
by America West, Abeles said. America West would retain the right of
first refusal if Ansett offered any of the shares for sale. In
addition, Ansett would gain one board seat, he said. Ansett Transport
Industries wholly owns Ansett Airlines, one of Australia's two major
domestic airlines, and is in turn owned 50/50 by Abeles' international
transport group TNT Ltd <TNTA.S> and Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd
<NCPA.S>. REUTER 

TAKEOVER SPECULATION LIFTS HUTTON <EFH> SHARES
    New York, June 1 - 
E.F. Hutton Group Inc shares rose on speculation the company would
receive a takeover offer, traders said. Hutton's stock also was
affected by a newspaper report that First Boston Corp <FBC>
accumulated almost five pct of Hutton's stock on behalf of an outside
client, traders said. Traders said the story, which appeared in USA
Today, added speculation which began on the street last week. They
said there were rumors the stock was under accumulation and
speculation abounded the company would soon receive an offer. A Hutton
official declined comment. Hutton's stock rose 2-1/4 to 39-3/8. Hutton
several months ago rejected a buyout offer from Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc <SHE>. The newspaper story mentioned speculation American
Express Co <AXP>, the parent of Shearson, was a possible buyer. But
traders said the rumors today did not name buyers. First Boston
officials were not immediatley available for comment. Prudential Bache
analyst Larry Eckenfelder said he doubted the speculation about
American Express. He said he believed Hutton, which is occassionally
surrounded by rumors, moved up today as a result of the newspaper
article. "Hutton is still a takeover candidate," said Eckenfelder.
Reuter 

ENTERTAINMENT MAKES BUYOUT OFFER TO CRAZY EDDIE
    HOUSTON, Texas, June 1 - 
Entertainment Marketing Inc <EM> said it has made an offer to the
board of Crazy Eddie Inc to acquire all outstanding shares of Crazy
Eddie Inc for eight dlrs a share in cash. Entertainment said the offer
would be conducted through a negotiated merger with a new corporation
to be formed by Entertainment Marketing. Entertaiment said it has
requested an early meeting with Crazy Eddie Inc's board and that it
has committed 50 mln dlrs toward the purchase of the shares including
those already purchased. The company also said it has retained Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc to assist in raising the balance of the financing.
According to Entertainment, its company and its chairman own about 4.3
pct of Crazy Eddie's currently outstanding shares. Additionally, the
company said it is willing to negotiate all aspects of its offer and
is willing to consider a transaction which would be tax free to Crazy
Eddie's shareholders. Reuter 

BARNETT BANKS <BBF> FILES AGAINST FEDERAL BOARD
    JACKSONVILLE, Fla., June 19 - 
Barnett Banks Inc and Home Federal Bank of Florida said they filed a
suit against the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Savings
and Loan Insurance Corp. The companies said the suit asks a
Jacksonville, Fla., federal district court to enjoin the enforcement
of an interpretive rule adopted by the FHLBB last year which seeks to
give it jurisdiction over Barnett's proposed acquisition of Home. The
suit says this rule is arbitrary and capricious. Reuter 

PROTECTIVE LIFE <PROT> IN ACQUISITION
    BIRMINGHAM, Ala., April 9 - 
Protective Life Corp said it has signed a letter of intent to assume
<Liberty Life Insurance Co's> group insurance on July 1, subject to
regulatory approvals. Terms were not disclosed. Reuter 

CHEVRON <CHV> CUTS UNC <UNC> STAKE TO 8.4 PCT
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
Chevron Corp said it sold 4.6 mln shares of UNC Inc common stock on
June 15, leaving it with 1.4 mln UNC common shares, or 8.4 pct of the
total. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Chevron said it sold the shares for 11.88 dlrs each, or a total of
54.6 mln dlrs, under an agreement it had with UNC. The stock was sold
to an underwriting syndicate managed by Dillon, Read and Co Inc and
Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp, with the underwriters
paying 38.3 mln dlrs and UNC paying 16.4 mln, it said. Reuter 

BORDEN TO ACQUIRE PRINCE CO FOR ABOUT 180 MLN DLRS




CRA SOLD FORREST GOLD FOR 76 MLN DLRS - WHIM CREEK
    SYDNEY, April 8 - 
<Whim Creek Consolidated NL> said the consortium it is leading will
pay 76.55 mln dlrs for the acquisition of CRA Ltd's <CRAA.S> <Forrest
Gold Pty Ltd> unit, reported yesterday. CRA and Whim Creek did not
disclose the price yesterday. Whim Creek will hold 44 pct of the
consortium, while <Austwhim Resources NL> will hold 27 pct and
<Croesus Mining NL> 29 pct, it said in a statement. As reported,
Forrest Gold owns two mines in Western Australia producing a combined
37,000 ounces of gold a year. It also owns an undeveloped gold
project. REUTER 

CIRCLE EXPRESS TERMINATES PLANNED ACQUISITION OF OVERLAND EXPRESS




IRWIN JACOBS HAS GILLETTE <GS> STAKE
    New York, June 19 - 
Investor Irwin Jacobs said he has an investment in Gillette Co
amounting to less than five pct of the consumer products company's
stock. Jacobs, who made his comment in response to an enquiry, did not
comment further. Yesterday, Gillette rebuffed a takeover proposal from
Revlon Inc. Under an agreement between the two companies, Revlon must
have the permission of Gillette's board before making an offer to
shareholders. The board declined to grant that permission. Gillette
has been the topic of takeover speculation for several weeks. Its
stock has traded heavily, and arbitragers said they believe Jacobs may
not be the only investor who has a sizeable position in the company.
Reuter 

GENERAL PARTNERS SELLS GENCORP <GY> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
General Partners, a Texas partnership that recently ended its bid to
take over GenCorp Inc, told the Securities and Exchange Commission it
sold nearly all of its remaining 8.6 pct stake in the company. General
Partners said it sold 1,930,500 shares of GenCorp on April 10 at
118.25 dlrs a share in an open market transaction on the New York
Stock Exchange. It said the sale leaves it with 108 GenCorp common
shares. The partnership, which includes Wagner and Brown of Midland
Texas and Irvine, Calif.-based AFG Industries Inc, last week dropped
its 100 dlr a share hostile tender offer. Reuter 

UTILICORP <UCU> UNIT BUYS STAKE IN POWER PLANT
    KANSAS CITY, Mo., June 29 - 
Utilicorp United Inc said its UtilCo Group subsidiary completed the
purchase of a 38 pct interest in Westwood Energy Properties Limited
Partnership for about 10 mln dlrs. The company said the partership is
building and will operate a 30-megawatt electric generation facility
in Schuykill County, Penn., scheduled to begin commercial operation in
July. It said the 38 pct interest was sold by Westwood Funding Corp, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Combustion Engineering Inc <CSP>. Westwood
Funding retains an interest in the partership and serves as a general
partner, it said. Reuter 

CENTURY <CCC.O> TO BUY TO PUERTO RICAN CO
    NEW CANAAN, Conn., June 2 - 
Century Communications Corp said it had entered into an agreement to
acquire all the assets of <Community Cable Vision of Puerto Rico
Associates> and its associated companies for about 12 mln dlrs.
Century said it anticipates that <ML Media Partners LP>, which jointly
owns with Century a company called <Cable Television Co> of greater
San Juan, will join in acquisition and management of Community Cable.
Century said Community Cable is located in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Reuter 

HONG KONG FIRM UPS CALMAT <CZM> STAKE TO 12 PCT
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd, a Hong Kong investment firm, said it
raised its stake in CalMat Co to 3,712,860 shares, or 12.2 pct of the
total outstanding common stock, from 3,312,460 shares, or 10.9 pct. In
a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Industrial
Equity, which is principally owned by Brierley Investments Ltd, a
publicly held New Zealand company, said it bought 400,400 Calmat
common shares between April 9 and 13 for a total of 10.5 mln dlrs.
Reuter 

PROFESSOR LIFTS BANC TEXAS <BTX> PREFERRED STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
A University of Massachusetts finance professor said he raised his
stake in Banc Texas Group Inc to 45,340 shares of 1.4625 dlr
cumulative preferred stock, or 7.4 pct of the total, from 30,300
shares, or 5.0 pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Ben Shirley Branch also said he bought 52,025 shares of
Class A cumulative convertible preferred stock, or 5.9 pct of the
total, for 160,000 dlrs, bringing his total investment in both
preferred series to about 330,000 dlrs. Branch said he bought the
stock as an investment, but reserved the right to try to influence the
company. Reuter 

DRESSER INDUSTRIES INC TO SELL RELIANCE STANDARD LIFE INSURANCE TO ROSENKRANZ UNIT




CASCADE IMPORTERS UNIT ACQUIRES PARIS COMPANY
    WEST NYACK, N.Y., April 8 - 
<Cascade Importers Inc USA>'s Cascade International Europa GmbH of
West Germany, said it tentatively acquired worldwide rights for the
products of Madam Gre from the Bernard Tapie Group in Paris. The
agreement calls for Cascade to have the rights for the manufacturing
and trading of perfumes, skin care and treatment products, and
cosmetics of the group, it said. Cascade said the agreement also
includes the exclusive rights to trade through duty-free channels
worldwide the designer Gres accessories. In addition, Cascade said it
was granted an option to purchase all the assets including the plant
and equipment located in France. The company said the cosmetic product
line in the U.S. market alone could represent 20 mln dlrs in revenue.
Reuter 

USAIR <U> SAYS DOT PUBLIC COUNSEL BACKS MERGER
    WASHINGTON, June 18 - 
USAir Group Inc said the U.S. Department of Transportation's Office of
Public Counsel has urged that expedited non-hearing procedures be used
in its proposed acquisition of Piedmont Aviation Inc <PIE>. The
company said that America West Airlines Inc <AWAL.O> was the only
party voicing opposition to the acquisition. The Department of
Transportation had asked parties to submit statements by June 17
either supporting or opposing the acquisition. USAir said it and
Piedmont again requested expedited approval for the acquisition. The
company said the Office of Public Counsel could find no evidence that
the acquisition would substantially lessen competition in any market.
Reuter 

M.A. HANNA CO <HNM> TO ACQURE <PMS CONSOLIDATED>
    CLEVELAND, Oct 19 - 
M.A. Hanna Co said it has reached definitive agreement to purchase PMS
Consolidated, a privately owned manufacturer of colorants for the
plastics industry. M.A. Hanna said the purchase, which is subject to
certain conditions, is scheduled to close around the end of October.
Hanna announced last August that it was in negotiaitons to purchase
the company. Headquartered in Somerset, N.J., PMS reported over 70 mln
dlrs in revenues in its last fiscal year, which ended May 1987. Reuter


STANDARD OIL SAYS BP EXTENDS TENDER
    NEW YORK, April 23 - 
Standard Oil Co <SRD> said in a brief announcement issued after a
meeting of its board of directors that British Petroleum Co PLC <BP.L>
(BP) has extended its 70 dlr per share tender offer until midnight May
4. The offer for the 45 pct of Standard shares not owned by BP had
been due to expire midnight April 28. Standard Oil said discussions
with BP concerning the tender were continuing but provided no further
details. "So long as those discussions continue, no recommendation
will be made to Standard Oil shareholders regarding the offer,"
Standard said. Standard directors met at the company's Cleveland
headquarters on Thursday in a regularly scheduled meeting. The
spokesman was unable to say if the meeting would continue on Friday. A
committee of independent directors previously obtained an opinion from
First Boston Corp that the Standard shares were worth 85 dlrs each, 15
dlrs more than the BP offer. REUTER 

INVESTMENT FIRM RAISES TVX <TVXG.O> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 18 - 
WEDGE Group Inc, a Houston investment firm, said it raised its stake
in TVX Broadcast Group Inc to 682,419 shares, or 15.1 pct of the total
outstanding common stock, from 559,219 shares, or 12.4 pct. In a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, WEDGE said it
bought 123,200 TVX common shares at prices ranging from 8.00 to 10.625
dlrs a share. Reuter 

IDC SERVICES AGREES TO BE ACQUIRED FOR 16 DLRS A SHARE BY APOLLO PARTNERS GROUP




MICROWAVE LABORATORIES INC <MWAV.O> 4TH QTR NET
    RALEIGH, N.C., June 19 - 
April 30 end Shr 12 cts vs eight cts Net 316,655 vs 148,567 Sales
2,011,195 vs 1,422,719 Avg shrs 2,738,864 vs 1,881,296 Year Shr 43 cts
vs 49 cts Net 1,006,356 vs 918,290 Sales 7,059,446 vs 5,441,408 Avg
shrs 2,329,329 vs 1,881,296 Reuter 

UAL <UAL> HAS NO COMMENT ON STOCK RISE
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
UAL Inc, citing company policy, told the New York Stock Exchange it
would not comment on the unusual rise in its stock. UAL, parent of
United Airlines, closed up 6-1/4 at 72 on volume of 3.9 mln shares.
Wall Street traders said UAL's stock soared in response to the the
proposed 4.6 billion dlr buyout offer by United Air's pilots union and
on a general rise in air fares throughout the industry. Reuter 

REVLON GROUP AGREES TO MERGE WITH MACANDREWS AND FORBES GROUP FOR 20.10 DLRS/SHR CASH




VERNITRON <VRN> SETS RECORD DATE FOR MERGER VOTE
    DEER PARK, N.Y., June 29 - 
Vernitron Corp said it has set a new record date for shareholders
entitled to vote on the proposed merger of Vernitron Corp with SB
Holding Corp for July 10. Vernitron, which manufactures
electromechanical components and related products and services, said
it expects that a special meeting of shareholders will be held in
August. Vernitron said that SB Holding holds 55.2 pct in Vernitron,
resulting from a tender offer in November 1986. Reuter 

EXXON <XON> SOUTH AFRICAN UNIT ACQUIRED BY ZENEX
    JOHANNESBURG, April 9 - 
<Zenex Oil Pty Ltd> said it acquired the interests of Esso South
Africa, the local subsidiary of Exxon Corp <XON), and will use up to
20 mln rand in profits to finance educational and social programs. The
profit scheme will begin after Zenex has paid Exxon an undisclosed
purchase price for Esso, Zenex chairman John Truscott said in a
statement. The acquisition follows the Exxon withdrawal from South
Africa announced last December. Reuter 

WTC SHAREHOLDERS APPROVE PITTSTON <PCO> BUYOUT
    TORRANCE, Calif., June 29 - 
Pittston Co said WTC International N.V. shareholders approved the
acquisition of the company by Pittston. Terms of the transaction call
for Pittston to exchange 0.523 of its own common shares for each
outstanding WTC share, Pittston said. WTC is engaged in domestic
international air freight, ocean and surface freight forwarding and
consolidation and distribution services. Reuter 

CCX NETWORK <CCXN> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    CONWAY, Ark., April 13 - 
CCX Network Inc said it has entered into a letter of intent to acquire
privately-held <Modern Mailers Inc> and its affiliate <AnWalt Inc> for
about 3,200,000 dlrs in common stock. The company said Modern Mailers
had revenues of 8,600,000 dlrs for the year ended October 31 and
provides computer service, computer printing and lettershop
facilities. Reuter 

KRAFT <KRA> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    GLENVIEW, ILL., April 13 - 
Kraft Inc said it completed the acquisition of Holleb and Co, a
foodservice distributor based in Bensenville, Ill. Terms were
withheld. It said Holleb's 1986 sales were about 85 mln dlrs. Reuter 

HOME FEDERAL <HFBF.O> SETS SHAREHOLDER MEETING
    ST. PETERSBURG, Fla., June 29 - 
Home Federal Bank of Florida F.S.B. <HFBF.O> said it has scheduled a
special shareholders meetng for July 26 to approve proposed changes to
the bank's charter and merge with Barnett Bank Inc's Barnett Bank of
Pinellas County, N.A. Home Federal said the meeting is to approve a
definitive agreement signed May 26, calling for each share of Home
Federal's common stock to be exchanged for about 40 dlrs in market
value of Barnett common stock. The exchange would be based on
conversion of Home Federal shares of not less than 1.935 or more than
1.200 shares of Barnett stocks. At 40 dlrs a share, Home Federal said
the total market value of the transaction would be about 175 mln dlrs.
Home Federal said notice of the meeting and related proxy materials,
which has been filed previously with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Federal Home Loan Bank board, were mailed on June
26, to holders of record on June 15. Reuter 

CALMAT <CZM> SUES INDUSTRIAL EQUITY
    LOS ANGELES, Oct 19 - 
CalMat Co said it filed suit in Los Angeles Superior Court against
Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd, against certain of its affiliates and
against Ronald Langley, president of Industrial Equity's North
American operations. The company said its sut charges that Langley
missapropriated material non-public information acquired in his
capacity as a CalMat director and used the information for the benefit
of Industrial Equity. Accordi
ALLIED-SIGNAL <ALD> COMPLETES UNIT SALES
    MORRIS TOWNSHIP, N.J., June 29 - 
Allied-Signal Inc said it completed the sale seven businesses in its
electronics and instrumentation sector for 1.8 billion dlrs in cash
and in debt assumed by the purchasers. The company said last December
its would sell the units by mid 1987. It did not identify the buyers.
The company said the proceeds will be used to reduce debt, continue
the company's share buyback program, and increase strategic
investments in its core businesses and other corporate purposes. It
said the units sold were Ampex Corp, Amphenol Prodcuts, Linotype
Group, Neptune International, MPB Corp, Revere Corp and Sigma
Instruments Inc. Reuter 

HARCOURT <HBJ> MUM ON REED <REED.L> RUMORS
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc officials were not available for comment
on market rumors that it is interested in acquiring Reed International
plc <REED.L>. Officials of First Boston Inc, Harcourt's financial
adviser, declined comment. A Wall Street arbitrageur, who owns
Harcourt shares, said the rumors did not make much sense because
Harcourt has announced a recapitalization plan to ward off a takeover
attempt by British publisher Robert Maxwell."It's completely
inconsistent with the recapitalization, the only way is if they drop
the recapitalization," he said. Calls to Harcourt seeking comment were
not returned. Harcourt's recapitalization will come under scrutiny of
a U.S. Court in Orlando, Fla. Monday. The company has sought a
declaratory judgment on convertibility of debentures due 2011 in light
of the recapitalization. Harcourt said in a statement this week that
Salomon Brothers Inc <SB> and Mutual Shares Corp have intervened in
the case, claiming ownership of more than 30 mln dlrs face amount of
the debenture. In addition, British Printing and Communications Corp,
headed by Maxwell, owns 9.5 mln dlrs face amount, Harcourt said.
Salomon said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission
today that it has 21,978 of the debentures. If the court decides they
should be converted at par value of one dlr, they could be converted
into 22.0 mln shares. Harcourt is asking the court to rule the company
is not required to issue common to debenture holders who did not
convert prior to June eight. An increase in Reed shares in London
today was attributed by brokers to rumors of Harcourt's interest and
also to rumors that Maxwell might be a buyer. But an adviser to
Maxwell in New York said "there's no basis to think that it's us."
Reuter 

WYSE <WYSE.O> TO GET LINK TECHNOLOGIES
    SAN JOSE, Calif., June 1 - 
Wyse Technology said it agreed in principle to acquire privately-held
Link Technologies Inc in exchange for an undisclosed amount of Wyse
Technology shares. Link Technologies develops and markets computer
terminals, Wyse also said. Reuter 

SIMON AND SCHUSTER TO ACQUIRE WOODHEAD-FAULKNER OF THE U.K. FOR UNDISCLOSED TERMS




PACIFICORP <PPW> BUYS BUYS COMPUTER FIRM
    PORTLAND, June 2 - 
PacifiCorp said it acquired Thomas Nationwide Computer Corp for 25 mln
dlrs in cash and 15 mln dlrs in deferred consideration depending on
the future performance of the company. Thomas Nationwide leases and
re-markets new and used International Business Machines Corp
equipment, PacifiCorp said. It said Thomas Nationwide will be combined
with its Systems Leasing Corp unit in MacLean, Va. Reuter 

ARNOX <ARNX.O> STILL IN MERGER TALKS WITH TXL
    GREENWICH, Conn., Oct 19 - 
Arnox Corp said a special committee of its board is continuing talks
with <TXL Corp> on the terms of TXL's offer to acquire Arnox at 10
dlrs per share. It said TXL has arranged preliminary financing. Reuter


GREAT AMERICAN MGMT<GAMI> HAS ATCOR<ATCO> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
Great American Management and Investment Inc told the Securities and
Exchange Commission it acquired a 7.7 pct stake in Atcor Inc. Great
American said it bought the stake for investment. It added that it has
also considered--but not yet decided--to buy additional Atcor shares,
either in the open market, in private transactions, through a tender
offer or otherwise. Great American said it paid about 6.1 mln dlrs for
its 462,400 Atcor shares. It said its most recent purchases included
191,400 shares bought March 18-April 6. Reuter 

MERRILL LYNCH SAYS PRORATION FACTOR FOR SUPERMARKETS TENDER IS 85.66 PCT




COMPUTER ASSOCIATES <CA>, UCCEL SET MERGER
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Computer Associates International Inc and UCCEL Corp <UCE> said they
have signed a definitive merger agreement under which Computer
Associates will pay about 800 mln dlrs in stock for all outstanding
UCCEL shares. The companies said under the terms of the agreement, all
UCCEL shareholders will receive about 1.69 shares of Computer common
stock for each of the approximately 17 mln UCCEL shares outstanding.
According to the companies, this would amount to about 47.50 dlrs per
UCCEL share, based on May 29 New York Stock Exchange closing prices.
Closing of the transaction is anticipated in August, the companies
said. The companies said the resulting company wil retain the name
Computer Associates International Inc. Additionally, the companies
said Charles Wang, currently Computer Associates chairman and chief
executive, will continue as chairman of the new company. Reuter 

MARCADE GROUP <MAR> PLANS ACQUISITION
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Marcade Group Inc said it has agreed in principle to acquire a
prominent, privately-held maker of ladies' sports wear for an cash,
shares and options to purchase Marcade common valued at about 20 mln
dlrs. In its fiscal year recently ended, Marcade said, the company to
be acquired which owns five U.S. manufacturing facilities and one
offshore had revenues of over 60 mln dlrs and pretax earnings of about
four mln dlrs. Reuter 

TRANSAMERICA <TA> TO BUY SEDGWICK <SDWK.L> UNIT
    LOS ANGELES, Oct 20 - 
Transamerica Corp's Transamerica Insurance Co said it signed a
definitive pact to buy a 51 pct interest in Sedgwick Group PLC's River
Thames Insurance Co. Transamerica will buy 11 mln newly issued Class A
shares of River Thames for 2.23 dlrs per share. Sedgwick wil retain a
49 pct interest in River Thames, which is a property liability
reinsurer. The agreement, subject to shareholder approval, is expected
to close by the end of the year, the company said. In 1986, River
Thames reported net premiums written of 36 mln dlrs. Reuter 

FREEDOM FEDERAL <FRFE.O> SEEKS BUYER
    OAK BROOK, ILL., June 18 - 
Freedom Federal Savings Bank said it hired Salomon Brothers Inc to
solicit offers for the purchase of the bank as part of an ongoing
review of methods to enhance shareholder value. Freedom Federal
operates 15 retail branch banks and had 1986 year end assets of about
733 mln dlrs. "There is no assurance the bank will receive acceptable
offers or be sold, but we feel this is a prudent step to take at this
time," the bank said. Reuter 

PROSPECT GROUP HAS 14.3 PCT OF BRINKMANN<BRIK.O>
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
New York-based Prospect Group Inc <PROSZ.O> said it acquired 527,000
shares of Brinkmann Instruments Inc common stock, or 14.3 pct of the
scientific instrument maker's common stock outstanding. In a filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Prospect Group said it
bought the 527,000 Brinkmann shares in open market transactions
between August 12 and October 16 at 9.62 dlrs to 11.50 dlrs, or a
total of 5.69 mln dlrs. Prospect Group said it bought the stock "to
establish a significant minority equity interest in the company," but
does not intend to seek control of Brinkmann at the present time.
Prospect Group said it will review its investment objectives regarding
Brinkmann as warranted by market conditions, the company's
performance, and other factors including discussions with Brinkmann
management. Reuter 

HOLLLINGER <HLG.TO> PAYING 50 MLN DLRS FOR BUY
    TORONTO, June 2 - 
Hollinger Inc will pay about 50 mln dlrs cash for its previously
reported acquisition of privately owned Unimedia Inc, chairman Conrad
Black told reporters after the annual meeting, confirming a published
report. Commenting on press reports about the 50 mln dlr price tag,
Black said, "That would not be wildly inaccurate," although he
declined to disclose the actual cost. Montreal-based Unimedia is
Quebec's third largest newspaper group, with three French language
daily newspapers in Quebec City, Ottawa and Chicoutimi, Quebec and
four printing plants in Ontario and Quebec. Black added that Hollinger
would also continue seeking acquisitions of daily newspapers with
circulation under 25,000 readers. He said Hollinger was currently
talking to about 10 such newspapers in the U.S. where the company
currently owns 23 dailies. "There is really no end to the ones that
are available," he told reporters, although he added that most
remaining acquisition opportunities are in the U.S. He said that
Hollinger's 58 pct-owned Daily Telegraph PLC, of London, should become
profitable in this year's fourth quarter. For full-year 1987, the
Daily Telegraph could break even or better, said Black, citing major
reductions in labor costs and improved technology at the Telegraph,
Britain's largest circulation quality daily. The Telegraph lost 13.2
mln Canadian dlrs last year. Daily Telegraph chief executive Andrew
Knight told reporters after the meeting that the Telegraph's daily
circulation had risen by 25,000 since September to about 1,150,000 on
weekdays, despite added competition from the new Independent daily
newspaper. Knight said The Independent was not affecting the
Telegraph's growth, but was making inroads into the circulation of
other London quality dailies such as The Times and The Guardian.
Hollinger chairman Black predicted Hollinger would post 1987 net
income of about 55 mln dlrs, or one dlr a share, including
extraordinary gains from previous sales of discontinued operations.
Hollinger lost 87 mln dlrs or 6.54 dlrs a share last year on fewer
average shares and after an extraordinary loss of 52 mln dlrs. Black
told shareholders that first quarter operating earnings on continuing
operations amounted to 499,000 dlrs against a year-ago loss of 165,000
dlrs. Revenues on continuing operations rose to 102.1 mln dlrs from
1.5 mln dlrs last year, which did not include Daily Telegraph
revenues, he added. Consolidated first quarter figures were not
disclosed. He said the Daily Telegraph's first quarter operating loss
was sharply reduced from last year. Reuter 

GIBRALTAR <GFC> TO BUY THRIFT FOR 12 MLN DLRS
    BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., June 29 - 
Gibraltar Financial Corp said its Gibraltar Savings unit has agreed in
principle to buy <First Federal Savings and Loan of Ridgecrest> for
about 12.1 mln dlrs cash. The company said the actual price will be
determined at the close, based on net book value at May 31. It said
First Federal is located in Kearn County northeast of Los Angeles and
has assets of 130 mln dlrs. It said the transaction is subject to a
definitive agreement, shareholder and regulatory approval. Reuter 

UNITED ASSET <UAM> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    PROVIDENCE, June 1 - 
United Asset Management corp said it has completed the acquisition of
Rice, Hall, James and Associates of San Diego for undisclosed terms.
It said Rice Hall manages investments for institutions and individuals
and has about 690 mln dlrs in assets under management currently.
Reuter 

CELLULAR INC <CELS.O> TO SELL UNIT, TAKE GAIN
    DENVER, June 1 - 
Cellular Inc said it reached a definitive agreement to sell assets of
its wholly owned Michigan Cellular Inc to Century Telephone
Enterprises Inc <CTL> and add 28 cts a share to the year's earnings as
a result. It said the sale, subject to regulatory approval, represents
a capital gain in excess of 800,000 dlrs over the original price paid
by Cellular for its cellular interests in Michigan, acquired in
December 1986. Reuter 

ENTERTAINMENT MARKETING DEMANDS CRAZY EDDIE SHAREHOLDER
LIST, MAY PURSUE MERGER




WPP GROUP PLC EXTENDS ITS OFFER FOR JWT <JWT>
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
<WPP Group Plc> said it is extending its 50.50 dlrs a share offer for
JWT Group Inc until midday June 22. The company temporarily extended
the offer on June 17 but did not give an expiration date. Its 45 dlrs
a share offer for JWT, which has been rejected by JWT, expires on July
10. Reuter 

CADILLAC FAIRVIEW SAYS IT HAS RECEIVED SOME ACQUISITION PROPOSALS




OFFER FOR DOME MAY SHORT-CIRCUIT ITS DEBT TALKS
    NEW YORK, April 12 - 
A 3.22 billion dlr offer for Dome Petroleum Ltd <DMP.MO> by
TransCanada Pipelines Ltd <TRP.TO> may short-circuit Dome's
restructuring plan and open the door for more takeover bids, oil
analysts said. Dome is trying to get approval for a plan to refinance
debt of more than 4.5 billion dlrs by July 1, 1987, when an interim
debt plan that allowed the Canadian oil and gas firm to defer
substantial payments to creditors will expire. Analysts said
TransCanada's bid signals Dome's debtholders that an alternative
exists to Dome's debt plan. Dome announced its plan to 56 major
creditors as well as public noteholders in March after several months
of delicate negotiations. TransCanada's proposal "amounts to a quasi
debt restructuring," oil analyst Doug Gowland of Brown Baldwin Nisker
Ltd said from Toronto. Calgary-based Dome's restructuring plan would
allow creditors to convert debt to common shares under a formula yet
to be negotiated. Payments on remaining debt would be linked to cash
flow generated by assets pledged against the debt. "The weakness of
the whole debt-refinancing proposal is that even with approval of
creditors, there is no assurance that Dome will in fact be able to
repay all of its debt obligations," said Wilf Gobert, an oil analyst
for Peters and Co Ltd in Calgary. TransCanada's announcement came as a
surprise since Dome was waiting for responses from creditors on its
proposed refinancing packages, Gobert said. The TransCanada proposal
could open the bidding for Dome since other potential buyers were
probably waiting for lenders to agree to a restructuring, he added. "I
would think that the debtholders would want to entertain any and all
offers (for Dome)," Gobert said. Dome spokesman David Annesley said in
New York that TransCanada's announcement could be seen as an attempt
to fix the bidding price for Dome and an effort to preclude other
possible buyers from making an offer. "By drawing attention to us in
our discussions, it means that others may be a little reluctant to
come forward," he said. Dome does not consider TransCanada's proposal
a formal offer because the pipeline utility's announcement breached a
confidential agreement between the two companies, he said. Dome
responded to the statement by suspending discussions with TransCanada
in order to pursue talks with other unidentified parties. However,
Dome said its management and financial advisers would evaluate all
proposals, including TransCanada's. Gowland said TransCanada's offer
is probably a fair price for the company's 36.1 mln acres of oil and
gas land holdings. However, he said not enough financial details are
known about Dome's debt restructuring to compare the value of
TransCanada's proposed offer. REUTER 

UNITED MEDICAL CORP <UM> SELLS UNIT
    HADDONFIELD, N.J., June 29 - 
United Medical Corp said it will sell its Trotter Treadmills Inc unit.
The company said the sale is in line with its strategy of refocusing
on its health care service business. It said it had received interest
from several parties, but no agreement has yet been reached. Trotter
Treadmills makes motorized treadmills for the exercise enthusiast and
fitness club market. It said its sales for this year are projected to
be over 10 mln dlrs. Reuter 

INTERCO <ISS> COMPLETES LANE<LANE> ACQUISITION
    ST. LOUIS, April 13 - 
Interco Inc said its shareholders and those of Lane Co approved a
merger of the two companies at special meetings. As previously
announced, Lane's shareholders will receive 1.5 shares of Interco
common stock for each share of Lane stock held. Interco said the
merger becomes effective April 14. Reuter 

GEODYNE <GEOD.O> SETS WARRANTS, ACQUISITION
    TULSA, June 1 - 
Geodyne Resources Inc said iit filed a registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission covering a planned offering of 3.6
mln warrants to buy its common. The company also said its board is
evaluating a proposal to acquire closely-held <Snyder Exploration Co>
for one mln Geodyne shares. Members of Geodyne's senior management
also serve as senior management at Snyder and PaineWebber Group Inc
<PWJ>, which owns 40 pct of Geodyne's 12.6 mln outstanding shares, has
a substantial equity interest in Snyder. The acquisition is being
evaluated by Geodyne board members not employed by the company,
PaineWebber or any company affiliated with PaineWebber. It will be
subject to approval by the board and series C preferred shareholders.
Geodyne Resources said a registration related to the stock to be
exchanged for Snyder has been filed with the SEC but has not yet
become effective. The Snyder owners other than PainWebber are
Geodyne's president, Michael W. Tomasso, and its executive vice
president, James D. Snyder. The company said the warrants will be
offered solely to investors in the PaineWebber/Geodyne Energy Income
Program II. For every 100 dlrs invested in the program, an investor
will be entitled to buy one warrant to purchase one Geodyne common
share at a price equal to 120 pct of the average closing price of the
stock for the 15 trading days prior to formation of the partnership to
which the investor subscribes. In adddition, Geodyne said, PaineWebber
investment executives who market the program will be entitled to
receive one warrant for every 500 dlrs in subcriptions generated after
a four-year vesting period. These warrants would have an exercise
price equal to 150 pct of the 15-day average. The company said the
warrants are currently priced at 25 cts each, but this price is suject
to further evaluation by an independent underwriter. Reuter 

NOR-QUEST <NQRLF> MAKES BID FOR NORTHAIR <NRM.TO>
    NANAIMO, British Columbia, April 13 - 
Nor-Quest Resources Inc said it will make a takeover offer to acquire
all shares of Northair Mines Ltd on the basis of one Nor-Quest share
plus one dlr for two shares of Northair. Nor-Quest said it plans to
bring Northair's Willa Mine in the Nelson area of British Columbia
into production using Nor-Quest's recently acquired 1200-ton per day
mill located in the area. Reuter 

GOODYEAR <GT> TO SELL STAKE IN TOYOBO PETCORD
    AKRON, Ohio, June 29 - 
Goodyear said it is selling its 50 pct interest in Toyobo Petcord Ltd
of Japan to its partner in the venture, Toyobo Co. Reuter 

FRONTIER <FRTR.O> BUYS MALPRACTICE BUSINESS
    MONTICELLO, N.Y., June 29 - 
Frontier Insurance Group Inc said it acquired the malpractice book of
business generated by Medical Quadrangle Inc and Medical Professional
Liability Agency Ltd, a producer of medical malpractice coverage. It
said the acquisition will enable all of Frontier's medical malpractice
coverage to be serviced internally. Reuter 

DRESSER <DI> TO SELL UNIT TO ROSENKRANZ AND CO
    DALLAS, June 1 - 
Dresser Industries Inc said it signed a definitive agreement to sell
its Reliance Standard Life Insurance Co to RSL Holding Co Inc., a
subsidiary of the privately-held, New York-based investment firm of
Rosenkranz and Co. Terms were not undisclosed. Philadelphia-based
Reliance earned 25.3 mln dlrs on sales of 201.6 mln dlrs in 1986.
Dresser said it will use the proceeds from the sale for stock
repurchases, debt reduction, and possibly complementary acquisitions
in the field of engineered products and services for energy producers.
Reuter 

UAP MAKES ACQUISITIONS
    MONTREAL, April 8 - 
<UAP Inc> said it has acquired Slater Auto Electric Ltd, with two
Ontario stores, and United Diesel Engine Parts Ltd, of Dartmouth, Nova
Scotia, for undisclosed terms. It said the transactions, together with
acquisitions earlier this year, will increase its annual sales by
about 4.5 mln dlrs. Reuter 

CIS <CISIF.O> AGREES TO SECOND EXTENSION
    TULSA, Okla., June 1 - 
CIS Technologies Inc said that it and the Swiss Reinsurance Co of
Zurich, Switzerland agreed to a second extension of two dates for the
final part of their share purchase agreement. It said the June one
election date has been extended to June 15 and the June 30 closing
date has been changed to July 31. Reuter 

ALMI GROUP ACQUIRES INTEREST IN CLEARVIEW BAKING
    NEW YORK, June 29 -  
<ALMI Group L.P.> said its co-chairmen, Michael Landes and Albert
Schwartz, and its vice chairman, Michael Spiegler, have acquired a 50
pct equity interest in <Clearview Baking Corp> for undisclosed terms.
A. Dale Mayo, Clearview's president and chief executive officer, will
retain a 50 pct interest in the company, ALMI Group said. Reuter 

PACIFIC BASIN TO ACQUIRE 51 PCT OF T.E.A.M.
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
<Pacific Basin Development Corp>, based in Vancouver, British
Columbia, said it reached an agreement to buy 51 pct of T.E.A.M.
Pacific Corp and its marketing arm for 4.2 mln U.S. dlrs. Pacific also
said it expects ot earn three mln Canadian dlrs for the year ended
June 30, 1988 and 10 mln Canadian dlrs for the year ended June 1989.
T.E.A.M., a former Signetics Corp unit, assembles integrated circuits
in Southeast Asia and is itself buying an assembler. Pacific said
T.E.A.M. expects to earn over 80 mln Canadian dlrs per year when the
acquisition is completed. Reuter 

NORTHEAST SAVINGS <NSB> ADOPTS RIGHTS PLAN
    HARTFORD, Conn., Oct 19 - 
Northeast Savings F.A. said its board adopted a shareholder rights
plan designed to protect the company from coercive takeover tactics
and bids not fair to all sharholders. Under the plan, the board
declared a dividend of one share purchase right for each of the
Northeast common shares held of record as of November two, the company
said. Initially, the rights are not exerciseable, rights certificates
are not distributed, and the rights automatically trade with
Northeast's shares, the company said. However, 20 days following the
acquisition of 20 pct or more of Northeast's common shares shares or
20 days following the commencement of a tender offer for 30 pct or
more of Northeast's shares, the rights will become exerciseable and
separate rights certificates will be distributed, the company said.
The rights will entitle holders of Northeast's common shares to
purchase additional shares at an exercise price of 60 dlrs a share,
the company said. The company said that in the event of certain
triggering events described in the rights plan, holders of the rights,
other than an acquiring person, will be entitled to acquire
Northeast's common shares having a market value of twice the then-
current exercise price of the rights. Also, in the event Northeast
enters into certain business combination transactions, holders of the
rights will be provided a right to acquire equity securities of the
acquiring entity having a market value of twice the then-current
exercise price of the rights, the company said. Northeast said it will
be entitled to redeem the rights at one cent per right until the
occurence of certain events. Reuter 

COMPUTERLAND TO BE ACQUIRED BY INVESTOR GROUP
    OAKLAND, Calif., June 1 - 
Computerland Corp said an investor group led by the financial services
firm E.M. Warburg Pincus and Co Inc has agreed to acquire
Computerland's business. Computerland, a privately-held company said
to be the world's largest retailer of personal computers, declined to
provide details of the arrangement. But the company said it expects to
close the acquisition over the next 60 to 90 days. In announcing the
transaction, Computerland said the acquisition will provide it with
resources and support to maintain and expand its leadership position
in the computer retail industry. Computerland also said its network
retail sales in 1986 totalled 1.45 billion dlrs. Reuter 

SHAMROCK COMPLETES CENTRAL SOYA SALE TO FERRUZZI
    BURBANK, Calif., Oct 19 - 
Shamrock Capital LP said it has completed the sale of Cental Soya Co
Inc to Ferruzzi Agricola Finanziaria the holding company for the
Ferruzzi group of Ravenna, Italy. Shamrock Capital is a limited
partnership led by Shamrock Holdings Inc, the Roy E. Disney family
company. Under the agreement announced last month, Ferruzzi acquired
all the equity and assumed subordinated term debt of about 195 mln
dlrs in a transaction valued at about 370 mln dlrs. Reuter 

IBC ACQUISITION GETS 8,857,807 SHARES IN TENDER, TO BUY 90.9 PCT




BANCTEXAS <BTX> TO SELL AFFILIATE
    DALLAS, Oct 19 - 
BancTEXAS Group Inc said it has signed a definitive agreement to sell
its BancTEXAS Sulphur Springs affiliate to a group of local investors
led by Gene Watson for a cash amount equal to book value at the time
of the sale, subject to regulatory approvals. The unit had assets of
18.2 mln dlrs as of September 30. BancTEXAS said it plans to
concentrate on its primary market, the Dallas area. Reuter 

FLUOROCARBON <FCBN> BUYS EATON <ETN> DIVISION
    LAGUNA NIGUEL, Calif., April 9 - 
Fluorocarbon Co said it signed a definitive agreement to acquire Eaton
Corp's Industrial Polymer division for an undisclosed price. The
polymer division, based in Aurora, Ohio, had 1986 sales of 86 mln
dlrs, Fluorocarbon also said. Reuter 

FIRST OF AMERICA (FABK.O) ACQUIRES KEYSTONE
    KALAMAZOO, Mich, June 1 - 
First of America Bank Corp said it acquired (Keystone Bancshares Inc)
for 25 mln dlrs. Keystone shareholders will receive 45 dlrs per
Keystone share, payable in First of America convertible preferred
stock having a dividend rate of nine pct. Keystone has two affiliates
with combined assets of 205 mln dlrs. First of America has 7.9 billion
dlrs in assets. Reuter 

FIRST UNION <FUNC.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITIONS
    JACKSONVILLE, Fla., June 1 - 
First Union Corp said it completed the acquisition of two Florida-
based banks, North Port Bank, based in North Port, and City Commerical
Bank, based in Sarasota. Reuter 

GENCORP <GY> TO SELL GENERAL TIRE
    AKRON, Ohio, June 29 - 
Gencorp Inc and Continental AG of Hanover, West Germany, jointy
announced they signed an agreement for Continental to buy Gencorp's
General Tire Inc subsidiary for 650 mln dlrs in cash. Under the
agreement the companies said Continental will acquire General Tire,
including its related domestic and foreign operations, and Gencorp
will retain liability for the medical benefits of retired General Tire
employees who retired on or before November 30, 1984. The sale is
expected to be completed on or before November one and is subject to
meeting certain conditions. Continental is Europe's second largest
tire producer. Last year, the company had sales of 2.6 billion dlrs,
with 1.9 billion dlrs generated by its tire operations. Last year,
General Tire had operating profits of 79 mln dlrs on sales of 1.1
billion dlrs, and Gencorp had operating profits of 130 mln dlrs on
sales of 3.1 billion dlrs. GenCorp spokesman Rip Tilden said the
company will retain about 100 mln dlrs in liability for its former
General Tire employees under the agreement. Tilden said Gencorp will
use the proceeds from the sale to reduce its 1.5 billion dlr debt. In
April, GenCorp sucessfully thwarted a takeover by a partnership formed
by AFG Industries Inc <AFG> and Wagner and Brown with a restructuring
program that included the purchase of up to 54 pct, or 12.5 mln
shares, of its common at 130 dlrs a share for a total of 1.6 billion
dlrs As part of the restructuring, GenCorp also said it planned to
sell its tire business, the bottling operations of its RKO General Inc
subsidiary, and RKO's remaining broadcast properties to focus on the
company's aerospace and automotive components businesses. Tilden said
Gencorp expects to realize about 850 mln dlrs in after tax proceeds by
the end of 1987 as a result of sale of several pieces of the
nonbroadcast assets of the company, including general tire. "The price
paid for General tire would not cause us to reevaluate that estimate,"
said Tilden. General Tire employs 10,000 people worldwide and has four
tire manufacturing plants in the U.S. and one in Canada. In a
statemnet, A. William Reynolds, GenCorp chairman said the sale of
General Tire "represents a critical accomplishment in our plan to
restructure GenCorp." Reynolds also said GenCorp's previously
announced sale of its other businesses are "proceeding
satisfactorily." Among the pieces of Gencorp's empire that remain to
be sold are its RKO bottling operations. GenCorp agreed to sell RKO's
KHJ-TV station to Walt Disney Co <DIS> for 217 mln dlrs. That deal
awaits approval by the Federal Communications Commission. GenCorp also
received 257 dlrs after tax from the sale of RKO's WOR-TV. Reuter 

(SUBURBAN BANCORP), (WOODSTOCK BANCORP) TO MERGE
    PALATINE, Ill., June 1 - 
(Suburban Bancorp Inc) and (Woodstock State Bancorp Inc) said they
agreed to a merger under which Suburban will purchase Woodstock's
shares for a total of more than 18 mln dlrs in cash and Suburban
Bancorp shares. Woodstock is the holding company for the 110 mln dlr
State Bank of Woodstock. The merger will bring Suburban's assets to
661 mln dlrs and its total banks to 13. The merger is subject to
regulatory and shareholder approval. Reuter 

UNION PLANTERS <UPCM.O> ACQUISITIONS APPROVED
    MEMPHIS, Tenn., April 17 - 
Union Planters Corp said it has received regulatory approvals for its
previously-announced acquisitions of Borc Financial Corp and First
Citizens Bank of Hohenwald, and approval of its acquisition of
Merchants State Holding Co is expected within 10 days. All are to be
completed during the second quarter of 1987, it said. Reuter 

COURT DECLINES TO BLOCK VIACOM <VIA> MERGER
    NEW YORK, June 2 - 
Viacom International Inc said the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York denied the motion of <Carsey-Werner Co> for a
temporary injunction to block the proposed merger of Viacom with a
subsidiary of <National Amusements Inc>. Carsey-Werner is the producer
of the Cosby Show. Reuter 

UNIVERSAL COMMUNICATION <UCS> TO SELL ASSETS
    ROANOKE, Va., June 29 - 
Universal Communication Systems Inc said it has tentatively agreed to
sell substantially all its assets for about 79 mln dlrs in cash and
notes plus limited profit participation. The company said the terms of
the sale have been approved by its board and by Prime Motor Inns Inc
<PDQ>, owner of about 84 pct of Universal's outstanding stock. It
described the purchaser as a subsidiary of a company in the
communications field which is one of the 100 largest U.S.
corporations. The company said the transaction involves the payment of
20 mln dlrs in cash, a non-interest bearing payment of 11.3 mln dlrs
in four equal instalments over four years and two promissory notes
guaranteed by an affiliate of the purchaser. It said a 31.5 mln dlr 14
pct note is payable in four equal instalments over four years. It said
a 16.3 mln dlr 8.5 pct note due Dec 31, 1992, includes participation
in the 1992 profits of the acquiring company. Universdal said the
profit element can be terminated with payments by the purchaser of
either five mln dlrs in 1988, six mln dlrs in 1989, seven mln dlrs in
1990 or eight mln dlrs in 1991. Reuter 

GAF <GAF> GROUP RECONSIDERS BUYOUT BID
    WAYNE, N.J., Oct 19 - 
GAF Corp said the management group led by chairman Samuel J. Heyman
intends to reconsider its proposal to acquire GAF. On September 8, the
group offered 64.00 dlrs in cash and 2.50 dlrs principal amount of 15
pct junior subordinated debentures due 2007 for each GAF share. Heyman
owns about 2,700,000 of GAF's 33.5 mln shares outstanding. In a letter
to the committee of independent directors formed to consider the
offer, Heyman said it will have to modify the terms of the offer if it
is to continue the bid, due to rising interest rates and financial
market conditions. Heyman said "In the considerable time that has
elapsed since our original proposal was submitted, the credit and
financial markets have experienced extraordinary and almost
unprecedented deterioration. As of the present time, the average
interest rate on the financing which we proposed to raise in
connection with the acquisition has increased, since the original
proposal, by approximately 150 basis points." He said the group
intends to promptly review all available options, including the
revision of its offer to reflect current market conditions. Reuter 

STEP-SAVER <CODA> SAYS WARRANT EXERCISED
    BALA CYNWYD, Pa., April 9 - 
Step-Saver Data Systems Inc said Bergen-Richards Corp has exercised a
warrant to buy 450,000 Step-Saver shares at two dlrs each. It said
warrants issued to the underwriter in its initial public offering were
exercised in March for an aggregate of 169,200 dlrs. Reuter 

SITHE TO RAISE ENERGY FACTORS <EFAC> STAKE
    SAN DIEGO, June 19 - 
Sithe-Energies LP said it has signed an agreement under which it will
increase its interest in Energy Factors Inc to 70.0 pct from 53.4 pct
now by investing 100 mln dlrs in Energy Factors stock. Reuter 

WILLIS FABER NOT SELLING MORGAN GRENFELL STAKE
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
<Willis Faber Plc> said its 20.8 pct holding in stockbrokers Morgan
Grenfell Group Plc <MGFL.L> was not up for sale. The insurance broker
issued a statement in reply to recent press speculation which it said
was in part "inaccurate and undesirable." "Willis Faber has not
received any offers for its stake in Morgan Grenfell," it said, adding
that an offer would have to be considered on its merits. "Willis
Faber's stake in Morgan Grenfell has been a very successful
investment," it said. Reuter 

NOVA <NVAA.TO> CONSIDERING BID FOR DOME <DMP>
    Calgary, Alberta, June 18 - 
Nova Corp is considering a takeover bid for Dome Petroleum Ltd, either
alone or as part of a consortium, Nova chairman Bob Blair said. "We
are thinking about making an offer to Dome or Amoco (Canada Petroleum
Co Ltd) or the creditors," Blair told reporters before the annual
meeting. Amoco Canada is a unit of Amoco Corp <AN>, which has made a
5.2 billion-dlr acquisition offer for Dome. "There is ongoing, serious
thought applied to Dome in Nova and in Husky, but no decision of
substance as to future action has been taken in either company," Blair
said. Nova owns 43 pct of Husky Oil Ltd <HYO.TO>. Blair also said that
Nova has made no decision as to whether it would want to be lead
partner in a joint purchase of Dome. He added that some of the
discussions with other parties about Dome included TransCanada
PipeLines Ltd <TRP>, but refused to name the other participants.
Reuter 

S. AND W. BERISFORD WANTS TO STAY INDEPENDENT
    LONDON, June 18 - 
S.And W. Berisford Plc <BRFD.L>, which has attracted takeover bids, is
making every possible effort to remain independent, deputy chairman
Henry Lewis said after the company announced interim results. "We've
taken specific steps to strengthen ourselves for this purpose," he
added, referring to management changes and a corporate strategy of
concentrating on four business sectors. Berisford aims to produced
balanced earnings growth from a combination of commodities, property,
financial services and food. Its industrial division, with assets of
about 90 mln stg including debt, is being reviewed and parts may be
sold. Reuter 

NATIONAL GUARDIAN <NATG> MAKES ACQUISITIONS
    GREENWICH, Conn., April 8 - 
National Guardian Corp said it has acquired a number of security
services companies recently, with aggregate revenues of about
3,500,000 dlrs, for an aggregate cost of about 2,700,000 dlrs. It said
it acquired guard service companies C.S.C. Security Gaurd Service of
Paramus, N.J., from Cartel Security Consultants Inc, the Guard
Services Division of Security Services of America of Wayne, N.J.,
Capital Investigations and Protective Agency of Hackensack, N.J., and
Meyer Detective Agency Inc of National Park, N.J. The company said it
bought alarm service operations Certified Security Services Inc of Key
West, Fla., Custom Security Services of Myrtle Beach, S.C., A-T-E
Security Group Inc of Houston and the Louisville, Kent and Nashville,
Tenn, offices of Wells Fargo Alarm Services. Reuter 

MURPHY OIL <MUR> TO ACQUIRE CANADIAN SUBSIDIARY
    EL DORADO, ARK., June 19 - 
Murphy Oil Corp said its board proposed a reorganization in which it
would acquire the 23 pct of common shares of its Canadian subsidiary
not owned by the parent. Under the proposal, which would be undertaken
as a court-approved plan of arrangement, shareholders of Murphy Oil Co
Ltd of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, would be offered the option to
receive 31 dlrs (Canadian) a share cash or the equivalent market value
of common shares of the parent company. Reuter 

DAUPHIN DEPOSIT <DAPN> TO ACQUIRE COLONIAL
    HARRISBURG, Pa., April 13 - 
Dauphin Deposit Corp said it signed a definitive agreement to acquire
<Colonial Bancorp Inc>. The agreement calls for Colonial to be merged
into Dauphin Deposit Corp, and Colonial's subsidiary, New Holland
Farmers National Bank, to be merged into Dauphin Deposit Bank and
Trust Co, the lead bank of Dauphin Deposit Corp, the company said.
Shareholders of Colonial will receive between 3.6 and 4.4 shares of
Dauphin common stock for each share of Colonial, depending on
Dauphin's current market value, it said. As of Dec 31, 1986, Colonia
Bancorp had assets of 150 mln dlrs, Dauphin said. Reuter 

HARCOURT <HBJ> DEBENTURES MAY TRIGGER SUIT
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Holders of convertible subordinated debentures of Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich Inc threatened to sue the company if they do not get more
information about how their investment will be affected by the
company's proposed recapitalization plan. The holders, none of whom
was willing to be identified, said although Harcourt has urged that
they convert their shares to common stock by the June eight record
date for a special dividend, they were unable to determine if it might
be better for them to continue holding the debentures. "There are
rumors that various houses will bring litigation if we don't get
answers," said a Wall Street source. Officials of Harcourt declined to
comment, citing a suit brought by British publisher Robert Maxwell
whose has been trying to acquire Harcourt. Executives of First Boston
Inc, Harcourt's financial adviser, did not return a telephone call
seeking comment. When it announced its recapitalization May 26
Harcourt advised holders of the 6-3/8 pct convertible subordinated
debentures due 2011 to convert into common by the June eight record
date for the company's special dividend. Harcourt's special dividend
pays 40 dlrs per share in cash plus a security worth 10 dlrs. Holders
would also retain stock in the recapitalized firm. The debentures had
been convertible at 34 dlrs per share. Harcourt's May 26 announcement
said the conversion price would be adjusted according to the indenture
covering the securities. Arbitrageurs said the conversion formula
yielded a "negative number" and thus they needed further information
from the company. Reuter 

WPP GROUP EXTENDING EXPIRATION OF ITS MERGER PROPOSAL TO
JWT GROUP UNTIL JUNE 22




VIDEO <JUKE.O> TO BUY PRESIDENT'S SHARES
    MIAMI, June 1 - 
Video Jukebox Network inc said it signed a letter of intent to
purchase up to 3.5 mln shares of the four mln shares of the company's
common stock from its founder and president, Steven Peters. Video said
the shares are to be purchased by Louis Wolfson III, senior vice
president of <Venture W Inc>, <National Brands Inc>, J. Patrick
Michaels Jr and <CEA Investors Partnership II>. Video said it
currently has 7,525,000 shares of common stock outstanding. The
company said it went public earlier this year and its current ask
price was 1-7/8. CEA Investors Partnership II has planned the
partnership to be operated by Michaels, who is chairman and president
of <Communications Equity Associates Inc>, a media brokerage firm,
Video said. The terms of the proposed transaction were not disclosed.
Video said Peters will continue as chairman and president of the
company. It said the parties have until June 29 to agree to all terms
of the letter of intent. Reuter 

HUMANA <HUM> TO BUY INT'L MEDICAL ASSETS
    TALLAHASSEE, Fla., June 1 - 
Humana Inc said a Florida Judge approved a previously announced
proposal for the company to buy certain assets of International
Medical Centers, which had been declared insolvent and put into
receivership in early May. Humana said it will pay 40 mln dlrs to the
state's Department of Insurance to pay prior claims and 20 mln dlrs in
working capital. Reuter 

MCCHIP <MCS.TO> TO ACQUIRE RESERVE HOLDING
    TORONTO, June 29 - 
McChip Resources Inc said it has agreed to exchange its interest in
Oklahoma oil and gas properties operated by Reserve Exploration Co
<REXC.O> for 638,435 restricted Reserve common shares. The company
said it will have a 44 pct stake in Reserve's outstanding shares as a
result of the exchange. Reuter 

ATLANTIC RICHFIELD <ARC> UNIT BUYS TECHNOLOGY
    PHILADELPHIA, June 2 - 
Atlantic Richfield Co said it has acquired exclusive worldwide rights
to the methyl methacrylate technology of Texas Eastern Corp's Halcon
SD Group affiliate for undisclosed terms. The company said the
technology will allow it to introduce a cleaner and more efficient way
of making methyl methacrylate, a liquid monomer used to make resins
for acrylic sheet, coatings, molded parts and products and plastic
impact modifiers. ARCO said it is reviewing options for
commercialization of the technology. Reuter 

ICN <ICN> HAS FIVE PCT OF SYNCOR <SCOR.O>
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc told the Securities and Exchange Commission it
has acquired 556,500 shares of Syncor International Corp, or 5.0 pct
of the total outstanding common stock. ICN said it bought the stake
for 3.9 mln dlrs as an investment and has no plans to seek control of
the company or to participate in the management of it. Reuter 

WINLEY BUYS LAND FROM M.D.C. HOLDINGS INC <MDC>
    ENGLEWOOD, Colo., June 29 - 
Winley Home Builders Inc said it completed a land purchase agreement
with M.D.C. Holdings Inc <MDC> for 1,090,000 dlrs in notes and
preferred stock. The company said it bought 33 lots in Colorado from
Richmond Homes Ltd, an M.D.C. unit, in return for 650,000 dlrs in
promissory notes and 440,000 dlrs in preferred stock. The company said
M.D.C. has an option to convert Winley preferred stock into 20 pct
Winley common in a year. Reuter 

MAXICARE <MAXI.O> ENDS PLANS TO SELL UNIT
    BIRMINGHAM, Ala., June 19 - 
Maxicare Health Plans Inc said it ended negotiations to sell Maxicare
Alabama L.P. to (Complete Health Inc). The companies said last week
they had reached agreement in principle for Complete Health to
purchase the health maintenance organization, the largest in Alabama.
Maxicare said the terms would not be in the best interests of the
heatlh care providers who have built the Alabama HMO. It said it now
intends to work with its health care providers in Alabama to further
develop the HMO. Reuter 

MEDIA GENERAL <MEG> HOLDERS MAY SEEK CONTROL
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
A shareholder group led by Barris Industries Inc <BRSS.O> said it
acquired a 9.8 pct stake in Media General Inc Class A common stock and
may seek seek contorl of the company. In a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, the group said it holds 2,711,000 shares of
Media General commons stock purchased at a total cost of about 108.3
mln dlrs. In addition to the possible bid for control, the group said
it may purchase additional Media General shares or possibly seek one
or more seats on the company's board of directors through a proxy
contest. A bid for control of Media General would be subject to "a
recapitalization or possible restructuring and to possible changes in
the charter documents and by-laws of the company," it said. The group
said it had held discussions with third parties to gauge their
interest in joining the shareholder group, but no agreements were
reached. Talks with third parties are expected to continue, the
shareholder group said. Between October 13 and 16, Barris Industries
bought 1,322,200 shares of Media General Class A common stock 42.50
dlrs to 45.50 dlrs a share in open market transactions, and another
12,000 shares privately. Reuter 

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS <SOCS.O> FORMS PARENT
    HARTFORD, Conn., June 1 - 
Society for Savings Bancorp Inc said it has completed its previously
announced plan of acquisition making a new Delaware-chartered bank
holding company the parent of Conneticut chartered Society for
Savings. Reuter 

WILLIS FABER BIDS FOR STEWART WRIGHTSON
    LONDON, June 29 - 
Willis Faber Plc <WIFL.L> will make an agreed 302.6 mln stg offer for
fellow insurance broker <Stewart Wrightson Plc>, a joint statement
said. The offer would be on the basis of three Willis shares for every
two in Stewart, valuing each Stewart share at about 655.5p. Willis
already owns 2.05 mln shares, or 4.62 pct, and has received
acceptances from Stewart's directors for a further 247,469 shares.
Full acceptance of the offer would involve the issue of 66.2 mln new
Willis shares, or 28.2 pct of the enlarged total. The companies said
the proposed merger would bring together businesses that were largely
complementary. Both believed the combination would permit more
effective competition throughout the world and enahnce the service
provided to clients. Following the merger, the two companies saw
significant opportunities for growth in brokerage income and
considerable scope for improved operating efficiency. Willis shares
were suspended on Friday at 437p. When trading restarted they dropped
sharply to 393p. Stewart Wrightson shares rose to 576p at 0835 gmt
from a suspension price of 499p. REUTER 

CONRAC <CAX> IN MERGER TALKS WITH SEVERAL
    STAMFORD, Conn., April 8 - 
Conrac Corp sait has started negotiations with several interested
parties on its possible acquisition. It said there can be no assurance
that any transaction will result from the talks. It gave no further
details. Mark IV Industries Inc <IV> started tendering for all Conrac
shares at 25 dlrs each on March 24 and owned 9.9 pct of Conrac before
starting the bid. Conrac is a producer and marketer of computer-
related information display and communications equipment which also
produces special purpose architectural and industrial products. It
owns Code-A-Phone Corp, a producer of telephone answering machines.
For 1986, the company reported profits of 7.8 mln dlrs, or 1.16 dlrs a
share, on sales of 153.9 mln dlrs. It has nearly 6.8 mln shares
outstanding. Reuter 

GANDER MOUNTAIN <GNDR.O> BUYS WESTERN WEAR FIRM
    WILMOT, Wis., April 13 - 
Gander Mountain Inc said it acquired privately held Western Ranchman
Outfitters, a Cheyenne, Wyo., retailer and catalog seller of western
apparel. Terms were not disclosed. Western Ranchman had sales of about
2.2 mln dlrs for the year ended Jan 31, 1987, the company said. Gander
Mountain sells brand name hunting, fishing and outdoor gear through
catalogs. Reuter 

HEPWORTH SELLS U.S. UNIT TO GLOBE MACHINE
    LONDON, April 13 - 
Hepworth Ceramic Holdings Plc <HEPC.L> said it had agreed to sell its
<Western Plastics Corp> unit to <Globe Machine Manufacturing Co> for
16.25 mln dlrs cash. Western, which makes polystyrene foam and
container products, has net assets of 19.3 mln dlrs and reported a
1986 pre-tax profit of 0.9 mln. The proceeds of the sale would be used
to reduce borrowings and develop activities in the U.K. Hepworth
shares eased 0.5p on the announcement to 227.5p. REUTER 

BURLINGTON <BUR> HEARING TO CONTINUE TOMORROW
    Greensboro, N.C., June 1 - 
U.S. District Court Judge Eugene A. Gordon said he plans to issue a
decision tomorrow on Burlington Industries Inc's request for an
injunction to stop Samjens Acquisition Corp's takeover bid for the
company. Wall Street sources have said the outcome of the case could
be pivotal in determining the winner in the fierce takeover battle for
Burlington, the largest u.s. textile maker. Gordon presided over six
hours of argument today by lawyers for Burlington and Samjens, a
partnership formed by Dominion Textile Inc and New York investor Asher
Edelman. Hearings are scheduled to continue tomorrow. A preliminary
injunction would hold up Samjens 2.47 billion dlr offer until the case
is decided. Burlington had previously agreed to a 2.44 billion dlr
buyout from Morgan Stanley Group Inc <MS>, one dlr per share lower
than a sweetened 77 dlr per share bid made by Samjens last week.
Burlington has not responded to the new Samjens offer. Burlington has
alleged in its lawsuit that Edelman and Dominion used illegally
obtained confidential information about the company in making their
takeover attempt. That information, Burlington said, was provided by
James Ammeen, a former Burlington executive, through PaineWebber Group
Inc <PWJ>. Ammeen, who had worked for Burlington for 23 years, had as
many as 12 divisions with 50 pct of Burlington's sales reporting to
him. When he left Burlington in November, 1985, Burlington said he
signed a contract promising never to divulge inside information about
the company. Burlington lawyers said shortly after he left he began
working with a PaineWebber employee on a hostile plan to "takeover the
company, dismember the company and displace its management,"
Burlington lawyer Hubert Humphrey said. Samjens lawyers acknowledged
it received information from PaineWebber, but argued the information
was public information and could be obtained either from texitle
industry analysts or Burlington's public financial statements.
Burlington lawyers said PaineWebber and Ammeen met with Edelman and
Dominion in November and continued to meet with them until a couple of
days before Edelman and Dominion went public April 24 with their
intention to take over the company. Burlington lawyers claim
Dominion's board decided to attempt a takeover of Burlington after
Ammeen met with the board in February. Burlington lawyers said Edelman
and Dominion held discussions with PaineWebber and Ammeen about acting
as financial advisers to Samjens. But they allege talks broke off
because Painewebber and Ammeen could not satisfy Edelman and dominion
with a written statement that they did not provide inside information.
Lawyers for Samjens contended that Painewebber and Ammeen withdrew as
potential advisers because Burlington chairman Frank Greenberg had
called a PaineWebber executive and threatened legal action if
PaineWebber got involved in an effort to takeover Burlilgnton. "The
ultimate question is not the price per share or the profit, but rather
the permissable standards of conduct for those who would takeover an
American company," said burlington lawyer Humphrey. Burlington lawyers
also contended that Burlington, as the largest manufacturer of denim
in the United States, would be in violation of anti-trust laws if it
acquired Dominion, Canada's largest textile maker. Dominion has denim
manufacturing plants in Georgia, which would reduce competition in the
denim market, the lawyers said. Samjens' lawyers discounted the
concern. They said the market for denim is more fragmented than
Burlington contends and that Burlington has the ability to switch
between light weight and heavy weight denim production as demand and
price dictate. Samjens lawyers also pointed to a lawsuit filed by
Burlington in Canada, in which it said it was considering a bid for
Dominion. "Surely, what would have been sauce for the goose would have
been sauce for the gander," said Sidney Rosdeitcher, a Samjens lawyer.
Reuter 

HONG KONG'S DAIRY FARM SAYS IT BIDS FOR 22 PCT OF KWIK
SAVE FOR 146.6 MLN STG




BPCC PLANNING SALE OF PACKAGING OPERATIONS
    LONDON, June 19 - 
The British Printing and Communication Corp Plc<BPL.L> is considering
selling its specialist packaging and labelling operations, a
spokeswoman said. She gave no dates or prices for the transaction but
said the units would be sold by negotiation. She declined to give any
turnover or profit figures for the packaging and labelling operations,
beyond saying that they were very profitable. They formed a self-
contained part of the overall group, she said. Analysts said the
packaging and labelling division could be sold for up to 150 mln stg.
Earlier this week group chairman Robert Maxwell also said it expected
to float its Mirror group newspaper subsidiary, bought from Reed
International Plc <REED.L> for 100 mln stg in 1984. The spokeswoman
said that BPCC intended to keep a majority share in the newspaper
group if it was floated. BPCC is currently locked in legal battles
resulting from its attempt to take over U.S. Publisher Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich Inc <HBJ>. Earlier this week, BPCC launched a two-for-three
rights issue to raise 640 mln stg and said the money raised would
enable it to renew its assault on Harcourt. It has also expressed
interest in Dutch publisher Kluwer NV <KLUW.AS>. REUTER 

SAN FRANCISCO, NOT REGION, HURT BY RESTRUCTURING
    SAN FRANCISCO, June 25 - 
Corporate mergers and acquisitions in and around San Francisco over
the past seven years have had only a modest effect on the metropolitan
area's economy, a leading business-backed organization said. The Bay
Area Council, a group of more than 300 business firms, said that a
study of corporate restructuring in a nine-county area found that San
Francisco itself had suffered some ill effects from corporate shake-
ups but that surrounding communities had not. Seventeen of the 32
Fortune 500 companies in the area left due to corporate restructuring
between 1979 and 1986, but another 21 firms were added to the list.
Ten of the departing companies were based in San Francisco. During the
period, only six located in the city achieved Fortune 500 status. Ted
Hall, a council director and local managing director of McKinsey and
Co. which conducted the survey, said the study grew out of concern
that mergers and acquisitions had seriously hurt the economic climate
of northern California. However, Hall said that only about 36,000 jobs
had been lost in the region, while more than 600,000 new jobs were
created during the period. At the same time, he said, the region
experienced a greater rise in per capita income and lower unemployment
than the rest of the United States and California. Council President
George Keller, who also is chairman and chief executive officer of
Chevron Corp., told a news conference that the region had difficulties
in persuading companies to locate there because of a fragmented local
political system. But he said that because of the amenities of living
in San Francisco, he was the envy of many chief executives in other
metropolitan area. "It's a great place to run a business," he added,
"but it's a hell of a place to do business with government." The study
concluded that Chevron, which mergered with Gulf Oil in 1984, would
benefit in the long run from the restructuring activity. Among the
corporate headquarters lost during the period were Crown Zellerbach,
Memorex, Southern Pacific, Castle & Cooke and Rolm. Companies that
grew enough during the period to make the Fortune 500 list included
Apple Computer, Pacific Telesis, McKesson, Tandem Computer, U.S.
Leasing and Amfac. The study by the management consulting firm said
that, partly due to corporate restructuring, the rate of job growth in
San Francisco has slowed since 1980. In addition, it said that the
loss of corporate leadership had adversely affected some of the Bay
Area's civic and charitable activities. Reuter 

MORE AMERICAN BRANDS <AMB> ACQUISITIONS SEEN
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
American Brands Inc's 545 mln dlrs acquisition of National Distillers
and Chemical Corp's liquor business is expected to be one of a series
of acquisitions by the tobacco company, analysts said. "They were very
frustrated with their inability to get Chesebrough. They said they
were looking for an acquisition. It doesn't surprise me that they came
up with another one," said Allan Kaplan of Merrill Lynch and Co.
American Brands failed late last year in its 2.9 billion dlrs bid for
Chesebrough-Ponds Inc when Unilever N.V. agreed to buy the company.
But since then, Wall Street has been speculating that American Brands
would find another candidate to help reduce its earnings exposure to
tobacco. "This is just typical," said George Thompson of Prudential-
Bache securities. "There's going to be more to come here. American
Brands had to make an acquisition because tobacco is still a
significant part of earnings. Their position is a little less
favorable than Philip Morris and RJ Reynolds," he said. cash flow from
its low growth tobacco, but the tobacco business does require great
amounts of capital expenditures. It can therefore use its funds to
make acquisitions. Analysts said the National Distillers' spirits
company, which makes Gilbey's gin and vodka, Old Grandad and Old Crow
whiskey, is not quite the type of acquisition they envisioned. "The
distilled spirits business has been in a steady gradual decline for
sometime, as has the tobacco business," said Thompson. REUTER... 

GANDER <GNDR.O> BUYS WESTERN WEAR RETAILER
    WILMOT, WIS., April 13 - 
Gander Mountain Inc said it acquired the privately held Western
Ranchman Outfitters, a catalog and point-of-purchase retailer of
western apparel based in Cheyenne, Wyo. It said Western Ranchman had
sales for the year ended Jan 31, 1987 of about 2.2 mln dlrs. The
purchase was made for an undisclosed amount of cast. Reuter 

BALL CORP <BLL> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    MUNCIE, Ind., June 2 - 
Ball Corp said it completed the purchase of privately held <Verac
Inc>, a San Diego defense systems and software development company.
Terms of the acquisition were not disclosed. Verac had 1986 sales of
about 23 mln dlrs. Verac will operate in San Diego as part of Ball's
technical products group. Reuter 

CONT'L MATERIALS <CUO> ENDS CONSIDERATION OF BID
    CHICAGO, June 1 - 
Continental Materials Corp said its directors decided not to give
further consideration to "business combination" proposed by a
stockholder group that holds 5.2 pct of Continental Materials stock.
Continental Materials said the offer had been received from
Continental Associates, a group of St. Louis businessmen. According to
Continental Materials, the group said May 11 it might boost its stake
in Continental Materials. But the group also said in a letter last
week to the company that the group had no financing. The board "did
not consider it an official offer," a Continental Materials
spokeswoman said. Reuter 

CORRECTED - DATRON <DATR> AGREES TO BUYOUT
    MINNEAPOLIS, MINN., April 8 - 
Datron Corp said it agreed to merge with GGHF Inc, a Florida-based
company formed by the four top officers of the company. According to
terms of the proposed transaction, each share of Datron common stock,
excluding those shares owned by the four officers, will be converted
into six dlrs a share, it said. Datron's officers hold about 73 pct of
the total 896,000 Datron common shares outstanding, it said. (corrects
company name, GGHF, in first paragraph) REUTER 

DAYTON HUDSON <DH> NOT INTERESTED IN ACQUISITION
    MINNEAPOLIS, Minn., June 19 - 
Dayton Hudson Corp, in a letter to employees, said it told an
"aggressive buyer" of the company's stock that it does not want to be
acquired. A Dayton Hudson spokeswoman would not identify the buyer,
but Wall Street sources said Dart Group Corp <DARTA.O> was the company
interested in buying Dayton Hudson stock. The Wall Street sources said
the Dart Group is expected soon to file a statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on its accumulation of Dayton
Hudson stock. According to the letter to company employess, Dayton
Hudson management has moved in two directions to fend off a takeover.
According to the letter, chairman Kenneth Macke expressed to the group
buying its stock the company's desire to remain independent. Dayton
Hudson Thursday night met with Minnesota governor Rudy Perpich,
appealing for legislative help. A spokesman for Governor Perpich
earlier said the governor is expected later today to recommend
stiffening the state's anti-takeover law to help the Minneopolis
retailer defend itself. Minnesota House speaker designate said the
legislators would probably look at language similar to that contained
in Indiana and New York law. He said any amendment proposed would
probably be designed to thwart a company from dismantling a company
for its own profit. "Obviously Dayton-Hudson people feel whatever
statutes we have would not protect them enough," Vanasek said. Reuter


KELLWOOD <KWD> BUYING THREE COMPANIES
    ST. LOUIS, June 29 - 
Kellwood Co said it signed a definitive agreement to acquire Robert
Scott Ltd Inc, David Brooks Ltd Inc and Andrew Harvey Ltd of Dedham,
Mass. Terms were not disclosed. Combined sales of the three companies
in 1986 were over 50 mln dlrs, it said. The deals are expected to be
completed by July 31, Kellwood said. Reuter 

NEW LEADER COMING TO U.S. SEC IN CHALLENGING ERA
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
President Reagan's nominee as top policeman for the nation's
securities markets will inherit an agency challenged by an insider
trading scandal, wild stock price gyrations and a host of
uncertainties stemming from the globalization of financial markets.
David Ruder, a 58-year-old Republican law professor at Northwestern
University in Evanston, Ill., was named Thursday to be the 23rd
chairman of the five-member U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
If confirmed by the Senate, as expected, he will succeed John Shad,
who left the agency earlier this week after a record six years as
chairman to become ambassador to the Netherlands. The SEC has been in
the limelight for the past year as its investigators have probed into
the most colossal insider trading scandal ever uncovered on Wall
Street. The investigation, which is still active, mushroomed in recent
months as a growing number of well known traders and prominent
investment banking firms have been charged with wrongdoing. The pace
of the probe picked up markedly in November after Ivan Boesky, one of
Wall Street's most successful stock speculators, agreed to cooperate
with government investigators and to pay a record 100 mln dlrs in
penalties and illegal profits after being charged with insider
trading. But the agency is also wrestling with a vexing new phenomenon
of huge and rapid swings in stock prices, spurred by computer-driven
trading strategies that span markets in securities, options and
futures. The price gyrations have combined with rising trading volumes
to bring unprecedented volatility to some U.S. securities markets. At
the same time, the SEC is being pressed by some lawmakers to put a
stop to abusive tactics in corporate takeover contests as an
unrelenting wave of such takeovers steadily reshapes the U.S.
corporate landscape. And the agency is being pushed by U.S. and
foreign exchanges intent on expansion to lay the regulatory groundwork
for an international securities marketplace in which trading occurs
across borders throughout the world, around the clock. Such worldwide
trading networks offer vast new investment opportunities but could
strain the SEC's ability to enforce U.S. securities laws and guard
investors from fraud. Under the leadership of Shad, the SEC eased
financial disclosure requirements for publicly traded companies,
eliminated many minor investor protection rules, attempted to spur
competition among exchanges and streamlined the agency's review of
hostile corporate takeovers. Shad, who had been vice chairman of the
E. F. Hutton investment banking firm, brought a Wall Street
perspective to the agency upon being named chairman in 1981. In line
with the views of other top administration officials, he favored
marketplace determination of takeover battles over new federal
regulations. The SEC under Shad also stressed prosecution of insider
trading violations over the corporate wrongdoing cases that topped the
agency's enforcement agenda during the administration of President
Jimmy Carter, a Democrat. Securities lawyers and industry officials
acquainted with Ruder say the new chairman-designate is unlikely to
significantly alter the commission's current priorities. The SEC
currently has about 2,000 employees, most of them lawyers, and an
annual budget of about 115 mln dlrs though that figure likely will be
significantly higher next year as the agency moves to beef up its
enforcement staff. The agency is one of the few in the government that
actually has taken in more money than it has spent in the past few
years because of fees it charges public companies, investment banks
and other securities firms it regulates. The SEC is structured as an
independent regulatory agency, meaning that its five commissioners are
appointed by the president to fixed five-year terms and protected from
firing for policy differences alone. By law, no more than three
commissioners may be of the same political party, and the agency
prepares its own budget request each year instead of leaving this to
the White House. Established by Congress in 1934, the SEC traces its
origins to the great stock market crash of 1929, which was attributed
in large part to widespread trading on credit and attempted market
manipulations by large investment firms. The agency requires public
companies and investment vehicles such as mutual funds to issue
periodic reports on their financial condition and to disclose changes
in their condition any time they issue new securities. It requires
brokers, dealers and investment banks to register with it and comply
with investor protection rules, and it polices exchanges and regulates
trading practices. Its first chairman was Joseph Kennedy, an
industrial magnate who was also the father of John Kennedy, later to
become the nation's 35th president. Other former chairmen include
William Douglas, who served from 1937 until his appointment to the
U.S. Supreme Court in 1939, and William Casey, who served during
President Nixon's first term and was Reagan's director of the Central
Intelligence Agency until his death earlier this year. Reuter 

DICEON ELECTRONICS <DICN.O> TO BUY SYMTRON CORP
    IRVINE, Calif., April 13 - 
Diceon Electronics Inc said it has entered an agreement in principal
to buy closely-held Symtron Corp in a stock exchange transaction.
Under the pact, Diceon would exchange 300,000 shares of its stock for
all of Symtron's shares. The acquisition, which is subject to board
approval and a definitive agreement, is expected to be concluded
during May. Diceon said Symtron management would continue running the
business, which would become a wholly-owned subsidiary. Symtron had
1986 sales of about 20 mln dlrs. Reuter 

MARTIN PROCESSING <MPI> ACCEPTS COURTAULDS BID
    MARTINSVILLE, Va., June 29 - 
Martin Processing Inc said its board approved an agreement to be
acquired by Courtaulds Plc <COU.L> for 20 dlrs a share. The company
said the transaction is valued at more than 99 mln dlrs, based on its
4,963,620 shares of stock outstanding. It said Courtaulds has
privately agreed to purchase a majority of Martin's common from trusts
established by Julius Hermes for 20 dlrs a share. It said Courtaulds
intends to conduct a tender offer for all the Martin stock it does not
own, beginning as soon as necessary documents are prepared. Reuter 

FRENCH GOVERNMENT SETS TERMS OF BIMP SALE
    PARIS, April 17 - 
The French Finance ministry said today a public flotation offer
opening this coming Tuesday for 39 pct of the capital of <Banque
Industrielle et Mobiliere Privee> (BIMP) has been set at 140 francs
per share. The offer closes next Friday. The ministry said in a
statement 51 pct of the bank's capital had been sold to a solid core
of large investors, including insurance companies and Michelin
subsidiary SPIKA, for 145 pct of the public offer price. Ten pct of
the shares have been reserved for employees, who get a five pct
discount increased to 20 pct if they keep the shares for two years.
Employees also get one free share for each one bought, if the shares
are held for at least one year. Small investors would receive one free
share for every 10 bought, with an upper limit of five free shares per
investor, and on condition the shares are held for at least 18 months.
The state-owned capital of BIMP comprises 2.51 mln shares. The bank is
being sold to the public as part of a sweeping programme to privatise
65 state-owned groups over five years. In a separate statement, the
ministry said last week's privatisation offer of 1.07 mln shares in
<Banque du Batiment et des Travaux Publics> (BTP) was 65 times
oversubscribed. REUTER 

LOMAS AND NETTLETON <LNF> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    DALLAS, June 17 - 
Lomas and Nettleton Financial Corp said it has agreed in principle to
acquire Houston discount brokerage firm Texas First Brokerage Services
Inc for undisclosed terms, subject to regulatory approvals. It said
completion is expected by July 31. Reuter 

TRAFALGAR HOUSE BUYS U.S. BUILDER FOR 20 MLN DLRS
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
Trafalgar House Plc <TRAF.L> said it has acquired the entire share
capital of <Capital Homes Inc> of the U.S. For 20 mln dlrs in cash.
Capital Homes builds single family homes in the Washington D.C. Area
and is also active as a land developer both for its own use and for
sale to other builders. In the financial year to end February, 1987,
Capital recorded pre-tax profits of 3.7 mln dlrs on a turnover of 58
mln dlrs from the sale of 421 homes. Capital has a land bank of some
2,600 units and in the current year the company expects to sell 500
homes, Trafalgar House said. REUTER 

TECSYN INTERNATIONAL TERMINATES TAKEOVER TALKS WITH
INVESTOR GROUP




LEX SERVICE BUYS SEARS MOTOR GROUP
c    LONDON, April 9 - 
Lex Service Plc <LEXL.L> said it had acquired <Sears Motor Group Ltd>,
the retail motor distribution arm of Sears Plc < SEHL.L>, and an 11.9
mln stg loan note payable by Sears Motor for 33.4 mln stg. The
purchase will be through 1.4 mln stg in cash and the issue to Sears
Plc of 8.0 mln new Lex ordinary shares. The company said in a
statement that immediately following the acquisition of the motor
group, its car and commercial vehicle contract hire fleet of some
3,000 vehicles was sold to <Lex Vehicle Leasing Ltd> for 14.3 mln stg
in cash, a sum equal to the net book value of the vehicles
transferred. Lex Vehicle is owned equally by Lex Services and <Lombard
North Central Plc>. Lex said the shares involved in the transaction
were today being placed for Sears Plc with institutions at 400p. These
shares will not qualify for the final Lex dividend on 10 April. Lex
said in a statement that its acquisition of Sears Motor Group
represents a major development for its automotive activities. The
enlarged retailing operations of the Lex Automotive group now have a
turnover of 530 mln stg. Lex's existing automotive interests include
Volvo Concessionaires, the sole importer of Volvo cars and parts into
the U.K. Lex said the turnover for Sears Motor Group in the year to 31
December 1986 was 242 mln stg and that at the date of the acquisition
the group had about 50 mln stg in external borrowings. Lex shares fell
on the announcement to trade around 409p from a 419p close yesterday.
REUTER 

ALLEGIS <AEG> TO SELL CANADIAN HOTELS
    CHICAGO, June 2 - 
Allegis Corp said it has created a limited partnership to sell
selected hotels in Canada to the public. It said the offering is
expected to raise in excess of 350 mln Canadian dlrs and will be
completed by the end of September. The limited partnership will be
similar to the Westin Hotels limited partnership completed last year
when Allegis sold Westin hotels in San Francisco and Chicago. Allegis
reported a pretax gain of 80.6 mln dlrs as a result of that
partnership. An Allegis spokesman said the offerings have been in
planning stages for a long time and are unrelated to recent corporate
developments such as the firm's recapitalization plan and a threatened
takeover by an investor group lead by Coniston Partners and the pilots
of its United Airlines unit. The spokesman said the company has not
yet identified which of its Canadian hotels will be offered for sale.
Allegis has 100 pct ownership in Westin hotels in Vancouver, Calgary,
Ottawa and Toronto, and 100 pct interest in Hilton International
hotels in Toronto and Montreal. It owns 60 pct of the Westin in
Edmonton. Richard Ferris, chairman of Allegis, said in a statement the
hotel limited partnerships allow the company to convert unrecognized
asset appreciation into cash. As with the proceeds from the earlier
limited partnership, the money will be used for general corporate
needs, the spokesman said. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and Wood
Gundy will be lead underwriters for to the public offering. The
limited partnership will be offered outside the U.S, Allegis said.
Reuter 

JUDGE TO DECIDE BURLINGTON <BUR> IN SEVERAL DAYS
    Greensboro, N.C., June 2 - 
U.S. District Court Judge Eugene A. Gordon said he will decide "in the
next few days" whether to grant Burlington Industries Inc's request to
stop a takeover by Samjens Acquisition Corp. "I do not know how I come
down on this preliminary injunction," Gordon said after listening to
arguments by attorneys for 1-1/2 days. "It's been a long time since I
was deluged with as much information as I have been. I have to
consider what's been presented and issue an opinion on this. Both
sides cannot be winners," he said. Burlington requested the injunction
to stop a takeover effort by Samjens, claiming the partnership used
illegally obtained confidential information about the company to make
its offer. It also alleges there would be anti-trust violations if
Samjens, formed by Asher Edelman and Dominion Textiles Inc of Canada,
were to succeed. Samjens last week topped a 76 dlr per share offer for
Burlington from Morgan Stanley Group <MS> by one dlr per share. Morgan
Stanley made its 2.44 billion dlr bid after Samjens bid 72 dlrs per
share for Burlington. Burlington lawyers told the court if the
injunction is not granted Samjens would win control of Burlington. A
Samjens lawyer argued that if the judge granted the injunction it
would "kill the offer" Jay Greenfield, an attorney for Samjens, said
the partnership would suffer irreparable harm if the injunction were
granted. "There's only one Burlington," he said. "If we cannot get
that then no amount of money can compensate us." Greenfield also said
Samjens could sell its holdings in Burlington for 95 mln dlrs. "We
don't want that. We're not in this for the money," he said. Irving
Nathan, a Burlington lawyer, reiterated that information provided by
James Ammeen, a former Burlington executive, was crucial to Dominion's
decision to attempt o takeover of Burlington. "Dominion relied on the
information provided by the insider Jim Ammeen," Nathan said. An
attorney for Ammeen, who is named as a defendant, asked the court to
dismiss the lawsuit against his client. The judge said he would not
rule on the request today. Reuter 

CHRYSLER AGREES TO ACQUIRE ELECTROSPACE SYSTEMS FOR 367
MLN DLRS




KUWAIT INCREASES STAKE IN SIME DARBY
    KUALA LUMPUR, April 11 - 
The Kuwait Investment Office (KIO) has increased its stake in <Sime
Darby Bhd> to 63.72 mln shares, representing 6.88 pct of Sime Darby's
paid-up capital, from 60.7 mln shares, Malayan Banking Bhd <MBKM.SI>
said. Since last November, KIO has been aggressively in the open
market buying shares in Sime Darby, a major corporation with interests
in insurance, property development, plantations and manufacturing. The
shares will be registered in the name of Malayan Banking subsidiary
Mayban (Nominees) Sdn Bhd, with KIO as the beneficial owner. REUTER 

ERICSSON SELLS OFFICE MACHINE DIVISION
    STOCKHOLM, Oct 20 - 
Telefon AB L M Ericsson <ERIC.ST> said it would sell its office
machinery unit, with a turnover of two billion crowns, to Norway's
<Norska Design Funktion A/S>. Ericsson Information Systems, of which
the unit is a part, said in a statement a decision would be reached in
November about when the Norwegian firm would take over the operation.
No price was given for the deal. EIS managing director Stig Larsson
said the deal would allow EIS to concentrate on voice and data
communication products. REUTER 

SQUIBB <SQB> SAID NOT INTERESTED IN BUYING CETUS
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Robert Fildes, president and chief executive of Cetus Corp <CTUS.O>,
told Reuters that Squibb Corp is not interested in buying Cetus.
Earlier the companies said Squibb would buy from Cetus a five pct
equity postion in Cetus for about 40 mln dlrs. "This is not an attempt
by Squibb to become a major majority holder in Cetus," Fildes told
Reuters in an interview. "Squibb has not approached us with any
indication that they want to acquire us and we wouldn't be interested
in that kind of arrangement," said Fildes. Squibb could not be reached
to comment on the late comments by Fildes. Squibb is Cetus' first
pharmaceutical partner and the only one to own an equity position in
Cetus. Eastman Kodak Co <EK> and W.R. Grace <WR> both have joint
ventures with Cetus, but neither owns an equity position in the
company, said Fildes. Cetus has a venture with Kodak to develp
diagnostic products and with Grace to develop agricultural products.
Earlier, Squibb and Cetus announced in a joint statement an agreement
in principle to form a joint venture to develop new biotechnology
products in several fields. As part of the deal Squibb will license
several of Cetus' anticancer agents, including interleukin-2, in
development. Squibb will sell the drugs only in Japan and other
markets but not in North American and Western Europe. "We wouldn't
have done this deal had it not been understood that Cetus wants to
build its own fully integrated business in North America and Europe,"
said Fildes. He said Squibb was the good partner because Squibb has a
major joint venture in Japan and has sales capabilities of its own in
that market. Fildes said Cetus has shunned licensing arrangements with
pharmaceutical companies because it wanted to build its own business.
Many large corporations have invested in small biotech firms. But
Squibb's investment in Cetus is the first it has made in
biotechnology. Fildes said that was attractive to Cetus because it
wanted a partner that didn't have a relationship with a large number
of other biotechnology companies." Fildes said his strategy was to
have partners in non drug areas like diagnostics and agriculture, but
to "keep the biggest developments in anticancer drugs to ourselves."
Fildes said the partnership with Squibb would be used to broaden the
company's reach in such big money making areas as the cardiovascular,
anti-infective and the anti-inflammatory markets. Squibb is also
investming 75 mln dlrs in Cetus' research over the next five years.
"Squibb is putting up over 75 mln dlrs in research and development to
make it happen, while the equity position part of the package is
simply to demonstrate the seriousness of this partnership," said
Fildes. Reuter 

REVLON <REV> AND MACANDREWS AND FORBES TO MERGE
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
<MacAndrews and Forbes Group> and Revlon Group Inc <REV> said that
they have entered into a definitive mergewr agreement where MacAndrews
will acquire Revlon at 20.10 dlrs per common share in cash. MacAndrews
said it increased its offer to purchase all Revlon common shares to
20.10 dlrs a share, from its April 1 offer of 18.50 dlrs a share.
Following consummation of the offer, a unit of MacAndrews will merge
into Revlon and each remaining share will be converted into the right
to receive 20.10 dlrs per share in cash, the companies said. Revlon
said its board of directors unanimously approved the merger agreement.
MacAndrews and Revlon also said they have reached a settlement with
the plaintiff in the pending litigation challenging acquisition of the
shares by MacAnrews. The companies said the tender offer and
withdrawal rights will expireon Tuesday April 28, unless extended.
MacAndrews said it will promptly file revised tender offer material
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc is acting as dealer-manager for the offer, the companies said.
Revlon currently has about 42 mln shares outstanding. The current
offer price is about 782 mln dlrs, a company spokesman said, up from
the previous offer of 720 mln dlrs. On April 1, MacAndrews and Forbes,
owned by Ronald Perelman, offered 18.50 dlrs a share for the 63 pct of
Revlon shares he did not already own. Since the offer was made over a
dozen shareholder lawsuits were brought against Revlon alleging the
original offer was too low. But, the companies said these lawsuits
have been settled in the amended offer. Reuter 

SERVICE RESOURCES<SRC> UNIT CUTS SORG<SRG> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
A group led by Chas. P. Young Co, a subsidiary of Service Resources
Corp, said it cut its stake in Sorg Inc to 366,700 shares, or 16.7 pct
of the total outstanding common stock, from 385,000 shares, or 17.5
pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Young,
which yesterday withdrew its 23 dlr a share takeover proposal, said
its other group member, SDI Partners Ltd Partnership, sold 18,300 Sorg
common shares between June 16 and 18 at 17-1/2 to 19 dlrs each. Reuter


BLUE ARROW TO ACQUIRE RICHARDS CONSULTANTS
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
Blue Arrow PLC said it signed an agreement to acquire Richards
Consultants Ltd for 29 mln dlrs in cash and securities. Richards is a
privately-owned New York-based executive recruitment firm. As part of
the agreement, Blue Arrow said the four principal shareholders who
manage Richards will enter into long-term service contracts with it.
The agreement is subject to approval of Blue Arrow shareholders.
Reuter 

BILZERIAN SAYS IF PAY N'PAK SIGNS MERGER ACCORD HE WILL TENDER FOR 7.5 MLN SHARES




GREYHOUND LINES AGREES TO ACQUIRE REMAINING ROUTES OF
TRAILWAYS CORP




BORG-WARNER AGREES TO BUYOUT BY MERRILL LYNCH FIRM
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
Borg-Warner <BOR> Corp, facing an unwanted offer from GAF Corp <GAF>,
agreed to a 4.23 billion dlr buyout offer from a company to be formed
by <Merrill Lynch Capital Partners Inc>. Borg-Warner and Merrill said
yesterday they entered a definitive merger agreement, under which a
subsidiary of the new company, <AV Holdings Corp>, will begin a 48.50
dlr per share cash tender offer today for 77.6 mln shares or 89 pct of
Borg-Warner common stock. The offer will be followed by a merger in
which each remaining share will be converted into 19.75 dlrs cash and
54.25 dlrs principal amount of AV Holdings junior subordinated
discount debentures. As a result of the merger, Borg-Warner will
become a wholly owned subsidiary of AV Holdings. A Borg-Warner
spokeswoman said members of management do not plan to participate in
the transaction, but they will retain their positions with the
company. A spokesman for GAF was unavailable for comment. GAF holds
19.9 pct of Borg-Warner's shares. GAF had said it would offer 46 dlrs
per share. Borg-Warner's spokeswoman said the company still plans to
sell its financial services unit, which includes Wells Fargo security
guards, and the Chilton Corp, a credit rating service. Borg-Warner has
been the focus of takeover speculation for about a year. Corporate
raider Irwin Jacobs last year proposed a takeover of the firm and
until recently held 10 pct of the stock. Following the GAF offer,
analysts had calculated breakup values for the company in the low 50
dlrs per share range and speculated an offer would have to be
sweetened. In its statement, Borg-Warner said its board endorsed the
Merrill offer and it recommended that shareholders tender their
shares. The board received opinions on the offer from its advisors,
First Boston Corp and Goldman, Sachs and Co. James Burke, president of
Merrill Lynch Capital Partners, said, "We are very pleased to have
entered into this transaction with Borg-Warner. We are looking forward
to working with the employees of Borg-Warner and to Borg-Warner
maintaining its strong presence in the Chicago community." Merrill
Lynch will be the dealer-manager for the offer, which expires at
midnight EDT May 8 (0400 GMT, May 9), subject to conditions, including
the completion of necessary financing arrangements. The offer is also
subject to a minimum 44.25 mln shares, or 51 pct of the outstanding
shares, being tendered. Merrill Lynch and certain affiliates have
committed to provide 200 mln dlrs in AV Holdings equity and 870 mln in
subordinated financing and forward underwriting commitments. Merrill
Lynch said that following discussions with commercial banks it is
confident it can obtain the rest of the financing required to complete
the transaction. The junior subordinated discount debentures to be
issued in the merger will carry a 13 pct coupon and will begin paying
cash interest after five years. The debentures will be redeemable at
the company's option for the first six years at 105 pct, during the
seventh year at 102.5 pct and after that at 100 pct of the principal
amount. The junior subordinated discount debentures have a maturity of
20 years and are entitled to a sinking fund commencing in the 16th
year designed to retire 60 pct of the issue before maturity. Borg-
Warner will also redeem all of its outstanding 4.50 dlrs cumulative
preferred stock, series A, for 100 dlrs per share. Holders who wish to
participate in the offer must first convert their preferred stock into
Borg-Warner common stock. The board of Borg-Warner has also taken
steps to redeem its poison pill or share purchase rights for five
cents per right, effective immediately. REUTER 

INVESTOR SELLS 10 PCT RB <RBI> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
Jeffrey Neuman, of Santa Monica, Calif., told the Securities and
Exchange Commission he sold his entire RB Industries Inc stake of
341,210 shares, or 10.0 pct, of the total outstanding. Neuman, who
transferred the stock nearly two years ago to the Tudor Trust, of
which he is trustee, said the trust sold the entire stake in a private
deal on June 9 at 11.00 dlrs a share. Reuter 

INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP UPS FACET <FCT> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
Charter Oak Partners, a Connecticut investment partnership, said it
raised its stake in Facet Enterprises Inc to 480,000 shares, or 9.6
pct of the total outstanding common stock, from 300,000 shares, or 6.0
pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Charter
Oak said it bought 180,000 Facet common shares on June 12 at 18.25
dlrs each. Reuter 

STOCKHOLDERS WON'T PURSUE CONTINENTAL <CUO> BID
    CHICAGO, June 2 - 
Continental Associates, a group of four shareholders who hold about
5.02 pct of of Continental Materials Corp stock, said it will not
pursue a tender offer for all of its shares. The shareholders said
they were told that Continental Materials directors had no interest in
selling the company. Late yesterday, Continental Materials board said
it decided not to give further consideration to a "business
combination" proposed by the group of St. Louis businessmen. Reuter 

MONIER SAYS BRITAIN'S REDLAND MAY BID FOR IT
    SYDNEY, April 8 - 
Diversified building materials group Monier Ltd <MNRA.S> said talks
are taking place which may lead to Britain's Redland Plc <RDLD.L>
making an offer for the Monier shares it does not already hold,
chairman Bill Locke said. Redland already holds about 49 pct of
Monier's 156.28 mln issued shares, he said in a brief notice to the
Australian Stock Exchange. Locke said shareholders would be advised as
soon as the discussions progressed and recommended that they keep
their shares. Monier shares were trading at a 1987 high of 3.10 dlrs
today, up from the previous peak of 2.80 at yesterday's close, and
well above the 1987 low of 2.18 dlrs. Monier is the largest concrete
roof tile manufacturer in Australia, the U.S. And New Zealand and the
world's largest marketer of fly ash, according to its annual report
for 1985/86 ended June 30. It recently reported first-half 1986/87 net
fell to 15.02 mln dlrs from 17.09 mln a year earlier due to the
Australian housing downturn, although foreign earnings rose. REUTER 

<GEN TERM CORP> ACQUIRES PRIVATE FIRM
    SAN FRANCISCO, April 13 - 
Gen Term Corp said it entered into escrow for the 5.2 mln dlr purchase
of Lewis-Westco and Co, a privately-held bottler and distributor of
wines and distilled spirits. Lewis-Westco had sales of more than 45
mln dlrs for its fiscal year ended June 30, Gen Term also said.
Separately, Gen Term, which trades over-the-counter, said it plans to
apply for NASDAQ listing after it completes the acquisition. Reuter 

AMOCO <AN> MAY BUY DOME <DMP>, REPORT SAYS
    Toronto, April 17 - 
Amoco Corp is apparently the successful bidder for debt-laden Dome
Petroleum Ltd, according to a published report. The Toronto Globe and
Mail, quoting sources close to the negotiations, today said Dome broke
off talks last night with TransCanada PipeLines Ltd, which last week
announced a 4.3 billion Canadian dlr offer for all of Dome's assets.
No financial details about the Amoco offer were available and a Dome
spokesman would neither confirm nor deny that Amoco had emerged the
winner, the newspaper said. However, the Dome spokesman indicated that
the sale of Dome could be finalized and announced this weekend, the
Globe and Mail said. Representatives of Amoco were not immediately
available for comment. Last Sunday, when TransCanada announced its
offer, Dome said it was also in talks with two other companies, but
refused to identify them. Since then, market speculation has centered
on Amoco and Exxon Corp's <XON> 70 pct-owned Imperial Oil Ltd
subsidiary in Canada. British Petroleum PLC <BP> and Royal Dutch/Shell
Group <RD> have also been mentioned as possible suitors for Dome. In
the past two days, Dome management has been pressured by the federal
government to select the offer from TransCanada, the only Canadian
company in the bidding. Prime Minister Brian Mulroney's government
appears to want to avoid a Dome sale to a foreign company since the
government gave Dome hundreds of millions of dollars in tax breaks to
encourage oil and gas exploration in the Arctic, analysts and
officials have said. A purchase by TransCanada would be least likely
to run afoul of Canadian antitrust laws, however, TransCanada is
asking for tax concessions from a federal government that is trying to
hold its deficit below 30 billion Canadian dlrs, analysts have said. A
takeover by Amoco or Imperial would also give a foreign oil company a
dominant position in Canada's oil industry. Imperial Oil is already
Canada's largest energy company, with 1986 revenues of 7.1 billion
Canadian dlrs. Chicago-based Amoco had 1986 revenues of 20.23 billion
U.S. dlrs. Its Amoco Canada Petroleum subsidiary is 100 pct owned by
Amoco Corp. Reuter 

JP INDUSTRIES <JPI> CONFIRMS PROPOSAL
    NEW YORK, April 9 - 
JP Industries Inc confirmed the announcement by Clevite Industries Inc
<CLEV> that JP Industries has submitted a proposal to Clevite for the
acquisition of the company at 13.50 dlrs per share in cash. John
Psarouthakis, chairman and president of JP Industries, said that the
company hopes to promptly negotiate an agreement with the special
committee of Clevite's board. In February, JP Industries said it
purchased Clevite's engine parts division. JP Industries said it is
not aware of any other reason for activity in its stock. Reuter 

DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS <DCAI.O> BUYS FOX UNIT
    ALPHARETTA, Ga., June 29 - 
Digital Communications Associates Inc said it agreed with Fox
Technology Inc <FOXT.O> to buy its Fox Research Inc unit for a cash
payment and the assumption of liabilities of around 10 mln dlrs. The
company said part of the agreement includes payment of up to an
additional 6.5 mln dlrs based on the performance of the unit in the
year following the closing. The company said the deal is expected to
be closed in mid-August. Fox Research develops, makes and markets
local area networks for personal computers. Reuter 

HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC <HE> TO BUY HAWAIIAN INSURANCE
    LOS ANGELES, April 9 - 
Hawaiian Electric Industries said it has entered a letter of intent to
buy the Hawaiian Insurance Companies. The transaction is subject to a
definitive agreement, and government and board approvals. The Hawaiian
Insurance Companies ad assets at the end of 1986 of 137.4 mln dlrs and
earned premiums of 46.1 mln dlrs. Hawaiian Electric said it plans to
operate the comapny, which has 226 employees, with current management.
Reuter 

SUPERMARKETS GENERAL <SGL> TENDER EXPIRES
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
SMG Acquisition Corp, a subsidiary of Merrill Lynch Capital Partners
Inc, said 38.3 mln shares of Supermarkets General Corp were validly
tendered by the midnight Friday expiration, resulting in a preliminary
proration factor of 85.66 pct. Merrill Lynch said it expects to
announce the final proration factor within 10 business days and begin
payment immediately thereafter. Shares validly tendered represented
about 98.75 pct of the outstanding shares of Supermarkets General, the
announcement said. The cash tender offer was for up to 32.8 mln shares
at 46.75 dlrs net per share. Reuter 

TRUMP AND INTERSTATE PROPERTIES IN TALKS TO ACQUIRE ALEXANDERS




AUSTEC <AIL.S> COMPLETE PURCHASE OF PRIVATE FIRM
    SAN JOSE, Calif, June 29 - 
Austec International Ltd said its North American unit, Austec Inc,
completed the purchase of privately-held Ryan-McFarland Corp for an
undisclosed sum. The company said the two units combined are expected
to have net revenues of about 25 mln dlrs in 1987. Ryan-McFarlnad
develops COBOL and FORTRAN language compilers for the micro, mini and
mainframe computer markets. Austec International is based in
Melbourne, Australia. Ryan-McFarland is located in Rolling Hills
Estates, Calif. Reuter 

MACYRO GROUP <MYO.M> BUYS COMPANIES
     L'Ange-Gardien, Que., Oct 19 - 
Groupe Macyro Inc said it agreed to buy two Quebec construction
wholesalers, (Nap Dumont (1982) Ltd) and (Nap Transport Cie Ltd) for
3.5 mln dlrs. Macyro said the two companies operate in the
construction material, electiricty, plumbing, hardware and
locksmithing sectors and had sales of 23.5 mln dlrs last year. Reuter


WARNER <WCI> HAS 8.2 PCT BERKEY INC <BKY> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Warner Communications Inc said its Warner Communications Investors Inc
unit acquired stock and warrants representing 416,668 shares of Berkey
Inc common stock, or the equivalent of 8.2 pct of the company's common
stock outstanding. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Warner Communications Investors said it paid about one mln
dlrs to Berkey on September 23 to acquire 104,167 shares of Berkey
Series B convertible preferred stock. The preferred stock is
convertible into 208,334 Berkey common shares, and warrants to buy
another 208,334 shares. Warner Communications and its subsidiary said
the Berkey stock is held as an investment which they will review and
evaluate from time to time. Reuter 

UNILEVER SEEKS BUYER FOR STAUFFER CHEMICAL
    LONDON, April 8 - 
Unilever Plc and NV <UN.AS> has issued a prospectus through investment
bankers Goldman Sachs and Co seeking a buyer for <Stauffer Chemical
Co> of the U.S., Which it acquired with the recent takeover of
<Chesebrough-Pond's Inc>, a Unilever spokesman said. He noted Unilever
has been indicating plans to dispose of Stauffer, plus some smaller
assets of Chesebrough, since the bid was made in December. The
Stauffer sale prospectus has been sent in recent weeks to a number of
companies expressing interest. The Unilever spokesman declined to say
how much the group expected to receive for Stauffer. Chesebrough's
footwear and tennis racket businesses are also likely to be disposed
of, he added. Immediately available financial information on Stauffer,
which is wholly-owned, was limited, he added. Nine month sales to
September 1986 were about 1.2 billion dlrs. Unilever aquired
Chesebrough for 3.2 billion dlrs in order to benefit from its well-
known toiletry brands and food products. Reuter 

FISHER SHAREHOLDER INDECISIVE OVER STOCK BUY
    BEDFORD HEIGHTS, Ohio, June 1 - 
Fisher Foods Inc <FHR> said <5300 Richmond Road Corp>, its largest
shareholder, has not yet reached a definitive decision about whether
it will buy more Fisher stock through a possible merger, tender offer
or another acquisition proposal. 5300 is a Delaware corporation formed
by <American Seaways Foods Inc>, <Rini Holding Co> and <Rego
Companies> which owns 1.5 mln shares of Fisher, or about 44 pct of its
outstanding common stock. Fisher said 5300 had announced on April 20
that they would make a decision on June 1 about the move. Fisher said
5300 also told it they will continue to explore possible advantages
and disadvantages of various acquisition proposals. 5300 also said it
is continuing to discuss with various financial groups about possible
financing for such a move, but gave no indication of when any
financing or proposal would be finalized, Fisher said. Reuter 

SANDVIK, DIAMANT BOART FINALISE DRILLS MERGER
    BRUSSELS, June 18 - 
Sweden's Sandvik AB <SVIK.ST> and Diamant Boart SA of Belgium, in
which Societe Generale de Belgique <BELB.BR> holds an indirect 52 pct
stake, have finalised negotiations on merging oil and gas drilling
tool activities, officials of both companies said. Staffan Paues,
President of the new Brussels-based joint venture company Diamant
Boart Stratabit SA (DBS), told a news conference that the merged firm
would be able to offer products for all types of drilling operations.
He said there were already signs that a slow recovery from recession
was under way in the oil and gas industries. "Stability in oil prices
should lead to renewed investment" Paues said. DBS, which Paues said
began operations today, brings together Sandvik's wholly-owned U.S.
Subsidiary Strata Bit Corp of Houston and Diamant Boart's petroleum
activities in Europe, North America, the Middle and Far East and
Africa. Paues said the merger was a direct result of the sharp fall in
oil prices 18 months ago which led oil firms to cut back exploration
activities. Officials said the complementary character of the two
firms' operations was a further reason. REUTER 

FIRM HAS SUPREME EQUIPMENT <SEQP.O> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
Towle and Co, a St. Louis, Mo., investment advisory firm, told the
Securities and Exchange Commission it has acquired 55,900 shares of
Supreme Equipment and Systems Corp, or 5.1 pct of the total
outstanding. Towle said it bought the stock for investment purposes on
behalf of its advisory clients. Reuter 

OWENS-ILLINOIS <OI> EXTENDS BROCKWAY <BRK> OFFER
    TOLEDO, Ohio, Oct 20 - 
Owens-Illinois Inc said its subsidiary's 60 dlr a share cash tender
offer for all the outstanding common shares of Brockway Inc has been
extended to midnight October 30. The offer had been scheduled to
expire at midnight October 21. Owens-Illinois said that as of Oct 19,
1,598,789 common shares, or about 13 pct of the outstanding shares of
Brockway have been tendered. It said it and Brockway are preparing
responses to the previously announced request for additional
information from the Federal Trade Commission under the Hart-Scott-
Rodino Act. The Owens-Illinois subsidiary, which began the tender
offer on September 23, will not be able to buy Brockway's common
shares until 10 days following Owens-Illinois compliance with the FTC
request or other conditions. Reuter 

FORSTMANN LITTLE AND CO TO SELL UNIT
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
<Forstman Little and Co> said it plans to sell its Sybron Corp unit, a
leading maker and marketer of dental and laboratory products, for an
undisclosed sum. Forstmann Little said it acquired Sybron in February
1986 and since that time Sybron has been substantially restructured,
with new management, lower corporate overhead and a new location in
Saddle Brook, N.J. Fortsmann Little said <Goldman Sachs and Co> will
act as its financial advisor for the move. It added that Sybron
expects revenues for the current fiscal year of 242 mln dlrs with
operating income of about 51 mln dlrs. Reuter 

CABLE AND WIRELESS DETAILS MERGER OF H.K. UNITS
    HONG KONG, Oct 19 - 
Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L> said it will merge its Hong Kong
Telephone Co Ltd <TELH.HK> and <Cable and Wireless (Hong Kong) Ltd>
units into a new holding firm to be called <Hong Kong
Telecommunications Ltd>. Under the merger, H.K. Telephone shareholders
will receive two H.K. Telecommunication shares at a par value of 50
H.K. Cents for each H.K. Telephone share at par of one dlr. H.K.
Telephone shareholders other than the Cable and Wireless group will
receive warrants on a one-for-five basis entitling them to acquire
from Cable and Wireless Plc within five years one H.K. Telecom share
at 10 dlrs each. The Cable and Wireless Plc group now holds some 70
pct of H.K. Telephone. It also owns 80 pct of Cable and Wireless (Hong
Kong), while the Hong Kong government holds the balance. Trading in
H.K. Telephone shares was suspended on October 15. The shares last
traded at 19.30 dlrs. REUTER 

SCI-MED <SMLS> BOARD AGREES TO BRISTOL<BMY>DEAL
    MINNEAPOLIS, MINN., April 8 - 
Sci-Med Life Systems Inc said its directors approved a previously
proposed agreement of merger with Bristol-Myers Co. The proposed
transaction is subject to completion of a due diligence investigation,
including a review by Bristol-Myers of a patent infringement suit
served on Sci-Med by Advanced Cardiovascular Systems Inc on March 31,
1987. Bristol-Myers has the right to call off the agreement under
certain circumstances, it said. Sci-Med said it continues to believe
the patent suit is without merit. Reuter 

KING WORLD <KWP> HAS FINANCING FOR OFFER
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
King World Productions Inc said it will finance the repurchase of up
to 7,600,000 of its shares announced earlier today through cash on
hand and about 200 mln dlrs of bank borrowings, for which it has
received commitments from First Chicago Corp <FNB> and Bank of New
York <BK>. The company today started a tender offer for up to
4,100,000 shares at 28 dlrs each and agreed to buy up to 3,485,085
more shares from members of the King family and management, who
together own a total of 13.9 mln shares. All the shares being
repurchased amount to about 25 pct of King World's stock. Reuter 

CSR SAYS IT IS PROCEEDING WITH OFFER FOR MONIER
    SYDNEY, June 2 - 
CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> intends to proceed with its planned bid for building
materials group Monier Ltd <MNRA.S> despite the counter-bid from
<Equiticorp Tasman Ltd> (ETL), CSR executive director Gene Herbert
told Reuters. ETL said today it would offer 4.15 dlrs each for
Monier's issued capital of 156.28 mln shares, plus a share
alternative. This compares with a 3.80 dlr cash element in CSR's
proposed bid. The proposed offer by ETL, controlled by New Zealand
entrepreneur Allan Hawkins, came after it built up a 14.99 pct stake
in Monier in a 95 mln dlr share raid in recent days. Herbert said
Britain's Redland Plc <RDLD.L>, which holds just under 50 pct of
Monier, still supported the CSR bid and had told CSR it is not a
seller. He said Redland wanted to maintain and build on its operations
in Australia and the U.S., Where Monier has built up a strong
presence, notably in roofing tile manufacture. The CSR offer contains
a put and call option agreement with Redland. This enables Redland to
accept the CSR bid within six months of its close or to lift its stake
to 50.1 pct in the same period and to run Monier as a joint venture
with CSR. CSR has said that Redland will take up the second option.
ETL has declined to say why it intervened in Monier, beyond describing
it as a long term investment. ETL would bring no synergies to Monier,
unlike CSR which is a leader in building materials, Herbert said. "We
fit better with Monier," he said. CSR has said that it will
concentrate development on its core businesses of sugar and building
materials after its moves into energy several years ago. Asked what he
thought ETL's bid sought to achieve, Herbert said: "I'm puzzled as to
what Hawkins' strategy is. One has to wonder if Monier is the main
target." Herbert said CSR had no plans to raise its bid, and said a
higher price would be difficult to justify on fundamentals. Monier was
trading at 2.80 dlrs when CSR launched its original bid of 3.50, or
16.8 times earnings, in late April. The shares closed at 3.90 dlrs
today, down 25 cents on yesterday, after ETL withdrew on reaching the
top foreign shareholding level permitted without Foreign Investment
Review Board (FIRB) approval. Its bid is subject to FIRB approval.
Herbert also said that institutions, which are more likely to accept a
share alternative than cash, would have to judge the respective values
of ETL and CSR shares. ETL is the third group to become involved in a
possible acquisition of Monier this year. Redland held discussions on
a possible takeover before the CSR bid emerged but the negotiations
foundered on the price. Share analysts said that for this reason, they
did not think ETL's intervention would flush out a full Redland bid
although Monier's ultimate fate rests in its hands. "Redland is still
in the driving seat," said Tim Cohen of <Ord Minnett Ltd>, adding that
Redland would be happier having CSR as a partner in running Monier
than ETL. Monier's independent directors have recommended ETL's bid.
REUTER 

ORION BROADCAST <OBGI.O> BUYS FORD <F> UNIT
    DENVER, June 2 - 
Orion Broadcast Group Inc said its majority-owned Orion Financial
Services Corp subsidiary has agreed to purchase FN Realty Services Inc
from Ford Motor Co for 1,200,000 to 1,500,000 dlrs in cash and notes.
It said closing is expected within 45 days after receipt of regulatory
approvals. FN provides loan collection, accounting, data processing
and administrative services to the real estate industry. Reuter 

BOEING CO TO ACQUIRE ARGOSYSTEMS FOR 37 DLRS A SHARE




METROPOLITAN <MONY.O> TO MAKE OFFER FOR METEX
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
Metropolitan Consolidated Industries Inc said it will make a tender
offer for all or any of the outstanding shares of common stock of
Metex Corp <MTX> not currently held by or under option to Metropolitan
for 7.75 dlrs per share. The company said the offer will be subject ot
securing satisfactory financing. Metropolitan currently owns about
25.7 pct of Metex common and holds options to purchase about an
additional 16 pct of Metex common stock. Metropolitan said the offer
will be made no later than October 27. Reuter 

<FIRST MONTAUK SECURITIES> IN MERGER DEAL
    EATONTOWN, N.J., April 13 - 
First Montauk Securities Corp said it has reached a preliminary merger
agreement with MCC-Presidential Inc. The company said MCC shareholders
would have a 25 pct stake in the combined company and would receive a
cash distribution of about 35 cts per share. Reuter 

GROUP SELLS MOST OF STAKE IN CCX INC <CCX>
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
A shareholder group including Far Hills, N.J. attorney Natalie Koether
said it reduced its stake in CCX Inc common stock to 10,000 shares, or
less than one pct of the company's common stock outstanding, from a
previous stake of about ten pct. In a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the group said it sold 380,000 CCX common shares
on October 15 at four dlrs a share. The group gave no reason for the
sales. Reuter 

READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION SELLS UNIT
    PLEASANTVILLE, N.Y., April 8 - 
<The Reader's Digest Association Inc> said it sold its subsidiary,
Source Telecomputing Corp, to the venture capital firm of <Welsh,
Carson, Anderson and Stowe>. The purchase price was not disclosed,
Reader's Digest said. It said it purchased an 80 pct stake in Source
in 1980 and earned an unspecified profit on 14 mln dlrs in revenues in
1986. Reuter 

FORTUNE FIN'L <FORF.O> UNIT MAKES ACQUISITION
    SUNRISE, FLA, June 19 - 
Fortune Financial Group Inc said its Fortune Savings Bank acquired a
Financial Security Savings and Loan Association branch in Sunrise,
Fla. Terms were not disclosed. The new Fortune Savings Bank office had
about 40 mln dlrs in deposits as of June 5. Meanwhile, acquisition of
Marine Savings and Loan Association of Florida, with four offices in
Naples, Fla, is awaiting regulatory approval. Reuter 

MINNESOTA MAY CONSIDER ANTI-TAKEOVER AMENDMENT
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
Minnesota Governor Rudy Perpich is considering calling a special
legislative session to consider amendments to the state's anti-
takeover statute, according to the governor's office. A spokesman for
the governor said nothing will be decided today, but said the governor
will evaluate later whether to call a special session in the next few
days. The governor's office said the possible action was triggered by
a proposal by Dayton-Hudson Corp <DH>, which has been the subject of
takeover rumors. A spokesman for the governor said the company
proposed several amendments to Perpich designed to make any takeover
attempt in the state more difficult. Dayton-Hudson suggested
amendments be passed and instituted by next Friday, the spokesperson
said. Press reports in Minneapolis newspapers this morning quoted
several legislators as saying they were inclined to support
legislation that would help Dayton-Hudson, according to a governor's
spokesperson. Senate Majority Leader Roger Moe was quoted as saying he
would be inclined to support any action that would help the company,
the spokesperson said. Robert Vanasek, the House speaker designate,
was quoted in the Minneapolis Star and Tribune as saying, "We are
taking their (Dayton-Hudson) concerns very seriously and we are going
to do what we can to help." Reuter 

PENNWALT <PSM> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    PHILADELPHIA, June 18 - 
Pennwalt corp said it has agreed in principle to acquire a line of
fungicides, insecticides and herbicidesand related manufacturing
facilities from Le Raffineries de Soufre Reunies of Marseilles for
undisclosed terms, subject to approval by bothe boards and government
authorities. The company said the acquired products are sold mostly in
FRance for use on grapevines, wheat and sugar beets and sales are
about 40 mln dlrs annually. Reuter 

SPECTRA-PHYSICS <SPY> MULLS SALE, RESTRUCTURE
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
Spectra-Physics Inc said it is considering the possibility of
recapitalizing, restructuring, or seeking a buyer for the company
following its rejection of an unsolicitied 32 dlr a share bid from
Ciba-Geigy Corp. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the San Jose, Calif., gas lasers and accessories company
also said its board Sunday agreed to a plan that gives 52 top
executives bonuses ranging from 20 to 50 pct of their base salary if
they stay with the company through August 29. In rejecting the
takeover proposal by the U.S. subsidiary of Swiss-based Ciba-Geigy AG,
the company said it was unfair. The Spectra-Physics board voted
unanimously, with two Ciba-Geigy representatives not participating, to
reject the Swiss-based chemical and pharmaceutical company's takeover
bid, citing an opinion from its financial advsior, Morgan Stanley and
Co Inc, that it is "inadequate and unfair from a financial point of
view to the holders of shares," the company said. The board also
authorized a special committee and Morgan Stanley to "vigorously
investigate, pursue and authorize any alternatives which would
maximize the value of shareholders' investment in the company," the
company said. Among the alternatives the special committee will
consider are a sale of the company to a third party for more than 32
dlrs a share, a recapitalization or restructuring, including self
tender offers and/or asset dispositions through the use of dividends,
Spectra-Physics said. The "retention plan" for the 52 top officers
will pay an average bonus percentage of 28 pct of salary, it said.
Spectra-Physics said its board approved the plan "in order to
encourage key operating personnel to remain with the company during
the period of turmoil and uncertainty engendered by the (Ciba-Geigy)
offer." Under the plan, the executives would be entitled to their cash
bonuses if they stay with the company through August 29, but could
receive them earlier if they are fired for reasons other than gross
and willful misconduct, or if they leave the company because their
salaries have been sharply cut. Spectra-Physics also said it filed
suit against Ciba-Geigy yesterday in U.S. District Court in
Wilmington, Del., charging it with making a takeover bid that was
false and misleading in violation of securities law and with violating
the intent of July 9, 1985 standstill agreement. Spectra-Physics said
Ciba-Geigy indicated at the time of the standstill agreement that it
would not make an unsolicited takeover proposal for the company and
that the intent of the agreement was that Ciba-Geigy would not acquire
more than 20 pct of the company unless there was another takeover
threat. Ciba-Geigy was 18.8 pct of Spectra-Physics and Reliance Group
Holdings <REL>, which is controlled by New York investor Saul
Steinberg, controls 12.8 pct. Spectra-Physics said the agreement
prevents Ciba-Geigy from raising its stake beyond 20 pct through Jan
1, 1992, unless another person get more than 10 pct of its voting
power. Reuter 

INVESTMENT FIRMS RAISE ORIENT EXPRESS<OEH> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
Two affiliated investment firms and funds they control told the
Securities and Exchange Commission they raised their Orient Express
Hotels Inc stake to 1,663,800 shares, or 17.0 pct of the total, from
1,560,800, or 15.9 pct. The firms, Boston-based FMR Corp and Bermuda-
based Fidelity International Ltd, said they bought a combined 103,000
Orient Express common shares from March 12 to April 8 at prices
ranging from 3.05 to 3.55 dlrs each. Reuter 

TRANS WORLD AIRLINES SAID CARL ICAHN WITHDRAWS ACQUISITION OFFER




FREEDOM <FRDM> TO RECOGNIZE GAIN ON UNIT SALE
    TAMPA, Fla., June 2 - 
Freedom Savings and Loan Association said it will record a net gain of
13.5 mln dlrs on the sale of certain assets of its Freedom Mortgage Co
subsidiary to Chase Home Mortgage Corp, a subsidiary of Chase
Manhattan Corp <CMB>. Freedom also said it had completed the sale. The
company said about 9.5 mln dlrs of the gain will be recnogized in the
quarter ending June 30 with the remainder derferred and recognized
over the remaining life of the serviced mortgage porfolio. Reuter 

CHRYSLER <C> TO TENDER FOR ELECTROSPACE <ELE>
    DETROIT, June 19 - 
Chrysler Corp said Electrospace Systems Inc agreed to be acquired
under a merger agreement in which Chrysler will tender 27 dlrs a share
for 100 pct of the Richardson, Texas-based defense electronics
contractor. It said total cost to Chrysler to buy all of the
outstanding stock would be about 367 mln dlrs. Electrospace Systems
designs, develops and installs communications and electronic systems
and equipment for the specialized needs of military and commercial
customers worldwide. Chrysler said Electrospace will help its
Gulfstream operations grow in military and commercial aircraft sales.
But it said there are no plans to merge Gulfstream and Electrospace.
Rather, they will operate as "sister companies," it said. Chrysler
said its tender offer is expected to begin by June 25 and will be
managed by First Boston Corp. For the fiscal year ended April 3, 1987,
Electrospace Systems had earnings of 10 mln dlrs on sales of 191 mln
dlrs. The company employs 2,500 people. About 92 pct of its sales were
to the military. Reuter 

NORTHAIR <NRM.TO> OPPOSING NORQUEST <NQRLF> BID
    VANCOUVER, British Columbia, April 13 - 
Northair Mines Ltd said it would oppose Nor-Quest Resources Inc's
earlier reported proposed takeover bid "with every means at its
disposal," saying "this attempt at a property grab is an insult to the
intelligence of our shareholders." It said Nor-Quest's offer to swap
one Nor-Quest share plus one dlr for two Northair shares would
seriously dilute Northair's equity in its Willa mine in British
Columbia. "Our company is in sound financial position and production
financing can be readily arranged when required. We're not looking for
a partner and if we were, it certainly wouldn't be these guys,"
Northair said. Reuter 

PRIMERICA <PA> COMPLETES SMITH BARNEY TAKEOVER
    GREENWICH, CONN., June 19 - 
Primerica Corp said it completed the previously announced acquisition
of Smith Barney Inc for 750 mln dlrs in cash. Primerica, wh ich
changed its name in April from American Can Co, said Smith Barney,
Harris Upham and Co Inc, wholly owned by Smith Barney Inc, will add
more than 100 domestic and overseas branch offices. Reuter 

DATAPRODUCTS <DPC> TO BUY IMAGING SOLUTIONS
    WOODLAND HILLS, Calif., April 13 - 
Dataproducts Corp said it signed a letter of intent to acquire the
Imaging Solutions Inc unit of Reliance Electric Co under undisclosed
terms. This acquisition will give it all rights to proprietary solid
and liquid ink technologies which had been developed by a joint
venture operated by it and Exxon Corp <XON>, Dataproducts said. It
said Imaging Solutions, formerly named Exxon Printing Systems Inc, had
been a Reliance Electric Co subsidiary. But Reliance recently became
an independent company as the result of a leveraged buyout from its
former owner, Exxon. Reuter 

NO TALKS SET ON PROPOSED JAPAN TELECOM MERGER
    TOKYO, April 14 - 
No formal talks have been scheduled yet among companies involved in a
controversial proposal to merge two groups seeking to enter Japan's
international telecommunications sector, an official from one group
said. "Nothing has been firmed up yet," said an official at
<International Digital Communications Planning Inc> (IDC), one of the
groups set up last year to study competing against <Kokusai Denshin
Denwa Co Ltd>, which monopolises the sector. Britain's Cable and
Wireless Plc <CAWL.L>, which holds a 20 pct share in IDC, has opposed
plans to merge with rival group, <International Telecom Japan Inc>.
Under the plan, backed by the Post and Telecommunications Ministry,
Cable and Wireless and U.S.-based <Pacific Telesis International Inc>
would become core companies in the merged firm, with shares equal to
those of the six major Japanese core companies and seats on the board
of directors. Britain, angry over what it feels are moves to restrict
Cable and Wireless' role in the sector, views the issue as a test
case. The IDC official declined to specify what was holding up the
talks. A spokesman for C. Itoh and Co Ltd <CITT.T>, which holds 20 pct
of IDC, said a meeting may be held later this week. REUTER 

PENTLAND TO REDUCE REEBOK <RBK> HOLDINGS
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
Pentland Industries PLC said it report a substantial capital gain from
the sale of part of its holdings in Reebok International Limited,
which will cut its stake in Reebok to 32.2 pct from 36.7 pct. It said
Reebok filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission for the offering of six mln shares of Reebok common. Reebok
will sell three mln shares and Pentland will sell 1,404,866 shares,
reducing its stake in Reebok to 18.1 mln from 19.5 mln shares. After
the offering, Reebok will have 56.1 mln shares shares outstanding.
Pentland said the amount of the capital gain from the sale depends on
the offering price for the Reebok shares to be negotiated between it,
Reebok, and the other selling stockholders who will offer about 1.6
mln shares of Reebok common, and the underwriters. Pentland said
proceeds from the offering will be used by Reebok to retire bank debt
incurred in its acquisition of AVIA Group for about 180 mln dlrs. Is
said that afterwards, Reebok will have bank credit lines available for
general corporate purposes, including possible acquisitions. Reebok's
stock was selling at 45-1/2, up 1/8. At that price, the 1.4 mln Reebok
shares Pentland will sell are worth about 64 mln dlrs and the three
mln shares Reebok will sell are worth about 136.5 mln dlrs. Pentland
said it will use proceeds to fund growth and possible acquisitions.
Pentland said 4,500,000 shares of Rebbok will be offered in the U.S.
by a syndicate led by Kidder, Peabody and Co Inc and 1,500,000 shares
will be offered outside the U.S. by an international syndicate led by
Kidder. It said the U.S. underwriters have been granted an option to
buy from certain selling stockholders up to an additional 900,000
shares to cover overallotments. Pentland said it has not chosen to
participate in this over allotment. Pentland said that as soon as the
date and price of the offering have been determined it will release
further details. It said it expects the offering to close in May.
Reuter 

SOSNOFF RAISES BID FOR CAESARS WORLD <CAW>
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
Investor Martin T. Sosnoff said he has raised his offer for Caesars
World Inc shares to 32 dlrs each from 28 dlrs and has reduced the
number of shares he is seeking to 29.1 mln from all those not already
owned. In a newspaper advertisement, Sosnoff said the bid by his MTS
Acquisition Corp, withdrawal rights and the proration period will now
expire June 19 unless extended. The offer had been scheduled to expire
May 15. In late March, Sosnoff said he had received a "negligible"
number of shares in response to the offer, which had been rejected by
Caesars as inadequate. Sosnoff already owns about four mln of Caesars'
30 mln common shares now outstanding, or a 13.3 pct interest on a
primary basis. Last week, Caesars' board approved a recapitalization
plan as an alternative to the Sosnoff offer under which shareholders
would receive a special dividend of 25 dlrs per share, subject to
approval by shareholders at a special meeting to be held in June. The
company planned to borrow 200 mln dlrs and sell 800 mln dlrs in debt
to finance the payout. Sosnoff said in the newspaper advertisement
that the amended offer is conditioned on receipt of enough shares to
give him a majority interest on a fully diluted basis and on the
arrangement of financing, as well as to approvals by New Jersey and
Nevada gaming authorities. He said the tender would be the first step
in acquiring all of Caesars' shares and if successful would be
followed by a merger transaction. Sosnoff said later in a statement
that the 29.1 mln shares he is now seeking, together with the
4,217,675 shares he owns, would give him a 92.4 pct interest on a
fully diluted basis. He said he still has received only a "negligible"
number of shares in response to his tender. In a letter to Caesars'
chairman Henry Gluck included in the statement, Sosnoff said Gluck had
again refused, on April 8, to meet with him, even though he had said
he was willing to increase the price of his offer. Sosnoff said the
financing for the offer is almost fully in place. Sosnoff said
PaineWebber Group Inc <PWJ> has now delivered to him commitments to
purchase up to 475 mln dlrs of increasing dividend cumulative
exchangeable preferred stock of MTS Holding Corp, an indirect parent
corporation of MTS Acquisition. He said Marine Midland Banks Inc <MM>,
which leads a syndicate that has provided commitments for a 500 mln
dlr margin facility, believes it will be able to arrange for further
commitments under the margin facility to advance up to an additional
25 mln dlrs that may be needed to permit the purchase of shares under
the offer. Sosnoff said under the merger that would follow his tender,
each of the 2,750,000 Caesars shares not covered by the offer, or 7.6
pct on a fully diluted basis, would be converted into Series A
preferred stock valued at 32 dlrs per shareby an independent
investment baking firm. He said "To the extent that fewer than
29,100,000 sdhares are purchased in the offer, the stockholders would
receive a combination of cash and Series A preferred stock having a
value of 32 dlrs per share of Caesars." Sosnoff said he believes terms
of his offer are superior to Caesars' recapitalization. Sosnoff said
he will be meeting this week with gaming officials in Nevada in an
effort to expedite the investigatory process required for regulatory
approval, a process that it already underway in New Jersey. He said
his offer has been extended based on the likely duration of the
regulatory process. He said he intends to further extend the offer if
the approval process is not completed by the expiration date. Reuter 

GREAT ATLANTIC <GAP> WITHDRAWS DECHAMPS BID
    MONTVALE, N.J., Oct 19 - 
The Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Co Inc said it withdrew its offer
to acquire Delchamps Inc <DLCH.O> for 27 dlrs a share or about 175 mln
dlrs, which was made earlier this month. Michael Rourke, A and P vice
president, said the company withdrew the offer because Delchamps did
not respond favorably to it and because of market conditions. He would
not comment on whether A and P would make another offer to acquire
Delchamps. Reuter 

BRAMALL TO ACQUIRE GELCO FOR UP TO 26.3 MLN DLRS
    LONDON, April 9 - 
<C.D. Bramall Plc> said in a statement accompanying its annual results
that it proposed to acquire Gelco U.K. For some 26.3 mln dlrs. Part of
the cost will be met by the issue of 2.14 mln new ordinary Bramall
shares which are being placed at 265p each. The acquisition will be
satisfied by an initial payment of some 25.3 mln dlrs in cash with
further payments of 500,000 dlrs up to a maximum 26.3 mln dlrs. These
further payments will only be made if profits achieved by Gelco for
the year ending July 31, 1987 reach a certain level. Bramall shares
were trading 6p lower at 278p. REUTER 

U.S. BANCORP <USBC.O> HAS ACQUISITION APPROVAL
    PORTLAND, Ore., June 1 - 
U.S. Bancorp (Oregon) said it has been advised orally that its
application for the acquisition of Old National Bancorp has been
approved by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. The company
said it has also been advised that it has received Fed approvals for
its acquisition of Heritage Bank of Camas, Wash., and for its
conversion of its subsidiary, U.S. Thrift and Loan of Salt Lake City,
Utah, into a commercial bank. In January U.S. Bancorp and Old National
reached a definitive agreement covering the acquisition of all the
stock of Old National which it does not already own for 171 mln dlrs.
U.S. Bancorp currently owns 4.9 pct of Old National's stock. Reuter 

I.U. INTERNATIONAL <IU> TO SELL INSURANCE UNITS
    PHILADELPHIA, April 8 - 
I.U. International Co said it reached a preliminary agreement to sell
the Hawaiian Insurance Cos to Hawaiian Electric Industries Inc. <HE>.
Terms of the transaction were not disclosed, the company said. The
transaction is subject to the execution of definitive agreements,
certain governmental approvals and approvals by the boards of
directors involved, I.U. International said. Hawaiian Electric said
the planned purchase was part of its strategy to increase the
company's investment in selected service industries in Hawaii,
including financial services. Reuter 

GE CREDIT SAYS IT WILL BUY KRAFT INC'S D AND K FINANCIAL
CORP




MEGAVEST TO ACQUIRE COMPUTER TRADE DEVELOPMENT
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
<MegaVest Industries Inc> said it has agreed in principle to acquire
unlisted Computer Trade Development Corp in exchange for 119 mln
shares of its common stock. The company said it has about 21.5 mln
shares outstanding. It said Computer Trade had revenues of about 6.1
mln dlrs last year. Reuter 

CLEVITE <CLEV> AMENDS RIGHTS PLAN
    GLENVIEW, ILL., April 9 - 
Clevite Industries Inc, which earlier received a 96 mln dlr takeover
offer from J.P. Industries Inc <JPI>, said it amended its Shareholder
Rights Plan so that certain provisions of the plan cannot occur until
the board determines that it is in the best interests of the company
and stockholders. The plan, adopted in December 1986, permits Clevite
to issue shares at half price to existing stockholders and allows
stockholders to buy shares of an unfriendly bidder at half price.
Clevite said the amendments by its board effectively mean that the so-
called flip-in and flip-over provisions of its rights plan can only be
triggered by affirmative board approval. The company said it acted
inview of the proposed acquisition and because certain debt
restrictions could block its ability to redeem the rights. Reuter 

OHIO MATTRESS <OMT> BUYS SEALY OF MICHIGAN
    CLEVELAND, April 9 - 
Ohio Mattress Co said that its Ohio-Sealy Mattress Manufacturing Co
unit completed its previously announced acquisition of Sealy Mattress
Co of Michigan Inc. In addition, the company said Sealy Inc, of which
its owns 82 pct, redeemed the outstanding Sealy stock held by Michigan
Sealy, thus increasing the company's stake in Sealy to 93 pct. Reuter


DAIRY FARM BIDS 146.6 MLN STG FOR 22 PCT KWIK SAVE
    HONG KONG, June 18 - 
<Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd> said in a statement it is
making a tender offer for 22 pct of Kwik Save Discount Group Plc
<KWIK.L> of Britain for a total 146.6 mln stg. Dairy Farm said it will
offer to buy up to 32.58 mln Kwik Save shares at 4.50 stg each. The
offer will bring Dairy Farm's stake in Kwik Save to 25 pct from the
present 3.5 pct, or 5.25 mln shares. The offer, which will begin on
Monday and ends June 30, requires that the shares tendered will bring
its stake to at least 15 pct. Dairy Farm said it will finance the
acquisition by placing 89 mln shares with affiliate Jardine Strategic
Holdings Ltd <JARS.HK> at 5.10 H.K. Dlrs each for a total of 454 mln
dlrs. The placement will raise Jardine Strategic's stake in Dairy Farm
to 39.75 pct from the current 35.3 pct. It said the Kwik Save purchase
will also be financed with a loan from the Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corp <HKBH.HK>. It did not give the size of the loan but it
said it would raise its net bank borrowings to a maximum of 2.2
billion H.K. Dlrs. Dairy Farm said it would reduce its bank borrowings
by the proceeds from the previously announced sale of its office
building in Sydney for 625 mln dlrs. It will consider raising
additional capital, most probably through a placement of convertible
preference shares in the Euromarket, it added. Company chairman Simon
Keswick said the U.K. Market "offers attractive opportunities for
competitively priced food retailers" and that "a strategic investment
in Kwik Save offers the best vehicle to pursue those opportunities."
REUTER 

LAWSON SAYS BP SHARE OFFER GOING AHEAD
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said the Government was
going ahead with this month's flotation of British Petroleum Co Plc
<BP.L> shares despite the collapse on international stock markets. "We
are going ahead because the whole issue has been underwritten - we had
it underwritten because there is always a risk of this sort of thing
happening," Lawson said in a BBC radio interview. Lawson's remarks
came as renewed selling on the London stock market took BP shares down
a further 33p to 283, well below the 330p price set for the around
seven billion stg issue. Lawson said the U.K. Economy is fundamentally
sound and added that stock markets had reflected that recently. "I
profoundly believe in the market system as the best way for securing
economic prosperity (but) that does not mean to say the markets are
infallible." "My advice to small investors...Is to remain calm. There
is absolutely no reason not to do so," Lawson said. REUTER 

RAYTECH <RAY> BUYS WEST GERMAN COMPANY
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
Raytech Corp said it acquired <Raybestos Industrie-Produkte GmBH> for
7.5 mln dlrs. Raybestos, with manufacturing facilities in
Radevormwald, West Germany, produces friction materials for use in
clutch and braking applications. Reuter 

TELEX <TC> MAY SEEK OTHER PURCHASERS
    TULSA, Oct 19 - 
Telex Corp said its board has directed management and financial
advisor Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc to investigate possible
alternatives to the tender offer of Asher Edelman's TLX Partners for
all Telex shares that may include seeking other purchasers for Telex.
The company said the board at an October 16 meeting decided to defer
until a board meeting later this week a recommendation on the Edelman
offer and said the board expects to make a recommendation by October
23. Reuter 

GAF <GAF> SEEN RAISING BORG-WARNER <BOR> BID
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
GAF Corp, set on acquiring Borg-Warner Corp's valuable plastics
business, is believed by analysts to be preparing an increased offer
for the Chicago-based company. Yesterday, Borg-Warner said it agreed
to be acquired for 4.23 billion dlrs by a company to be formed by
Merrill Lynch Capital Partners. Merrill offered 48.50 dlrs cash per
share for 89 pct of Borg-Warner's common stock, and a package of cash
and securities for the balance. Borg-Warner stock rose 1-3/8 to
49-5/8. "I think it's (the stock price) telling us GAF is coming in
with another bid," said one analyst, who values the company at 51 or
52 dlrs per share. GAF has offered 46 dlrs per share. It holds 19.9
pct of Borg-Warner's stock. "You're in a cat and mouse game on how
you're going to up the price. Obviously, nobody wants to pay more than
you have to. I think GAF is looking at the company the way we're
looking at it - that it's worth more," Pershing and Co analyst Richard
Henderson said. Henderson estimated it is worth abouth 55 dlrs per
share. GAF has only said it was reviewing the situation. Merrill Lynch
officials did not return phone calls. Analysts have said they believe
GAF Chairman Samuel Heyman sought Borg-Warner because of its chemicals
and plastics business. The rigid plastics are used in such things as
telephones, computer terminals, and appliances. "Where the heck can
you buy a world class chemical operation these days," said Henderson.
"He's (Heyman's) got the bucks. He's a heavy hitter, and he does not
like to get pushed around," said Henderson. GAF, a roofing and
chemicals concern, attempted a takeover of the much larger Union
Carbide Corp two years ago. While GAF did not win the company, it made
a substantial gain on its investment in Carbide. Analysts said GAF
already has a large profit built into its Borg-Warner holdings. They
said even if GAF raises its offer and does not succeed, a higher bid
from another company would give GAF millions of dollars in profits on
its stock. "It's a win-win situation," said one analyst. One analyst
speculated an offer from GAF would be forthcoming shortly. "I think we
are finally down to the final paragraph in this book," he said. Borg-
Warner's other businesses include automotive parts, protective
services, which includes Wells Fargo security guards, and Chilton
Corp, a credit rating service. Charles Rose, an Oppenheimer and Co
analyst who follows GAF, said if GAF were to sell into the Merrill
Lynch offer, it would realize about 125 mln dlrs net profit, or about
3.50 per share. "I think there's a probability he goes up in price,"
said Rose. Rose said, however, he could not really predict what Heyman
would do. "Sam's a low-risk, high-return player." "Is he trying to
build a major industrial chemical enterprise, or is he trying to be an
investment bank," Rose said. Analysts said Borg-Warner's chemical
business would add earnings momentum to GAF. "I worked out that paying
as much as 50 dlrs per share would still be additive to GAF in time,
if they sold off most of the non-chemical facilities," said John Henry
of E.F. Hutton. Borg-Warner's chemical and plastics business provided
1986 operating profits of 153.3 mln dlrs on revenues of 1.04 billion
dlrs. Total operating profits were 349.7 mln dlrs, and net earnings
were 206.3 mln dlrs for 1986. "The Borg chemical business is great,"
said Rose, adding its only U.S. competitors are Monsanto Co <MCT> and
Dow Chemical Co <DOW>. Reuter 

P.H. GLATFELTER <GLT> ACQUIRING ECUSTA
    SPRING GROVE, Pa., April 13 - 
P.H. Glatfelter Co said it has reached an agreement to acquire all the
capital stock of <Ecusta Corp> for 149,177,857 dlrs in cash.
Glatfelter, a printing and writing paper maker, said Ecusta operates
an uncoded three sheet and light-weight specialty paper mill in Pisgah
Forest, N.C. The mill produces and converts paper products used by the
doemstic and foreign tobacco industry. Glatfelter said it expects to
close the deal by May 31. Reuter 

FORTUNE SYSTEMS <FSYS.O> APPROVES UNIT SALE
    BELMONT, Calif., June 29 - 
Fortune Systems Corp said its shareholders approved the sale of its
computer hardware business to SCI Technologies Inc. The transaction is
expected to close this week. At its annual meeting, Fortune said
shareholders also voted to change Fortune's name to Tigera Inc. Its
principal subsidiary is Tigeral Corp. Reuter 

SPECTRA-PHYSICS <SPY> BOARD REJECTS TENDER OFFER
    SAN JOSE, Calif., June 1 - 
Spectra-Physics Inc said its board rejected a 32 dlrs per share
unsolicited tender offer for the company's stock from Ciba-Geigy Ltd
<CIGZ.Z>, which already holds 18.8 pct of the stock. Spectra-Physics
said it also filed a lawsuit in Delaware federal court this morning
seeking to enjoin the offer and alleging, among other things, that the
offer vilates federal securities laws, certain agreements between
Ciba-Geigy and Spectra-Physics, and Ciba-Geigy's fiduciary duties.
Spectra-Physics said the two Ciba-Geigy designess to its board were
not present at yesterday's special meeting which voted to reject the
offer as financially inadequate, unfair and not in the best interests
of Spectra-Physics or its stockholders. The company said the board
also authorized a special committee of outside directors to take
whatever steps it deems necessary to protect the interests of Spectra-
Physics and its stockholders and to investigate all alternatives to
maximize the value of the stock, including talks with third parties.
Spectra-Physics said a letter communicating the board's recommendation
and reasons therefore is being mailed to stockholders. It said Robert
Bruce, Reliance Group Holdings Inc's <REL> designee on Spectra-
Physics' board, resigned his position on May 29. His letter of
resignation said the action was to alleviate Ciba-Geigy's stated
justification for making the unsolicited offer that it had not
contemplated another significant investor having representation on the
board when its Spectra-Physics' investment was made. Reuter 

BARING UNIT SETS UP FUND FOR MANAGEMENT BUY-OUTS
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
Baring Capital Investors Ltd (BCI), a unit of the U.K. Merchant bank
<Baring Brothers and Co Ltd>, said it has raised 61 mln European
Currency Units (ECUs) which will be invested in management buy-outs
and development capital opportunities in the U.K. And continental
Europe. The funds were raised through BCI's first such fund - the
Baring Euaring European Capital Trust - from investors in nine
European countries. It expects to raise another 40 mln ECUs soon
through a French fund and a fund for U.S. Investors. BCI was set up
last year by Baring Brothers to advise buy-out and development capital
investors. BCI said the new fund is structured as a Guernsey-based
unit trust, which will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. It
will be advised by BCI and managed by a company owned jointly by
Barings and the management of BCI. Individual investments are expected
to range between one and 10 mln ECUs and are likely to be concentrated
in the U.K., Germany and France. BCI said its aims are to invest in
established companies, principally family companies with succession-
issues and corporate spin-offs. REUTER 

DART SAID IT SOLD 1.4 MLN DAYTON HUDSON SHARES, EXPECTS TO SELL REST OF HOLDING




DOMINION CALLS BURLINGTON <BUR> REPORT RUMOR
    MONTREAL, April 8 - 
<Dominion Textile Inc> considers a published report that it has bought
a stake in Burlington Industries Inc and is considering making a joint
bid for the company to be a rumor, a company spokesman said. "As far
as I am concerned and the company is concerned, they are rumors and
we're not commenting on rumors," spokesman Michel Dufour told Reuters
in response to a query. "All the information that has been given out
publicly is that, yes, Dominion Textile is interested in making an
acquisition that big...probably based on that people are starting all
sorts of rumors," he said. Dufour said yes when asked whether the
report was only a rumor, but said the company was not prepared to
comment further. Dominion Textile president and chairman Thomas Bell
was out of town and unavailable for comment. Dominion Textile last
year made an unsuccesful 104-mln- U.S.-dlr bid for Avondale Mills and
has maintained a 120-mln- U.S.-dlr line of credit to be used for an
American acquisition. Dufour said the company has been negotiating
with "many" U.S. textile companies but would not say whether
Burlington Industries was one of them. Burlington's stock rose sharply
this morning on the report, which said Dominion Textile had joined
with U.S. investor Asher Edelman to buy a stake in the company and to
consider making a takeover offer. Dominion Textile, which reported
operating profit of 11.1 mln Canadian dlrs last year on sales of 926.5
mln dlrs, has repeatedly said it will concentrate on expanding into
the U.S. The company has said it plans to diversify into new product
and market areas in addition to expanding its textile operations.
Reuter 

FABER OPEN FOR OFFERS ON MORGAN GRENFELL STAKE
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
Willis Faber Plc <WIFL.L> chairman and chief executive David Palmer
said the company would consider any bid for its 20.8 pct shareholding
in Morgan Grenfell Group Plc <MGFL.L> but had not yet received any
offers. "We will entertain any approaches," he told Reuters in reply
to questions, following U.K. Press speculation. In an earlier
statement, Faber said that if an offer were to be received for its
stake in the merchant banking group, "it would be considered on its
merits." REUTER 

FIRST BANK SYSTEM <FBS> SELLS LEWISTON BANK
    MINNEAPOLIS, April 17 - 
First Bank System said it has agreeed to sell its First Bank Lewiston
subsidiary, of Lewiston, Mont., to two local bankers for undisclosed
terms. First Bank Lewiston has assets of 101.4 mln dlrs at the end of
the first quarter. Reuter 

(CORRECTED)-CRAZY EDDIE <CRZY.O> SETS RIGHTS
    EDISON, N.J., April 13 - 
Crazy Eddie Inc said its board has adopted a defensive shareholder
rights plan and said it has reacived inquiries on a friendly merger.
It said under the plan, shareholders of record as of April 21 will
receive a right to purchase under certain circumstances at a price of
42 dlrs 0.01 preferred share for each common share held. The rights
expire April 9, 1997. The company said the rights would be exercisable
20 business days after a party were to acquire 20 pct or more of Crazy
Eddie common stock or announce a bid for 30 pct or more. Adds dropped
year of rights expiration. Reuter 

INTERNATIONAL AMERICAN <HOME> TO ACQUIRE COS
    UNION, N.J., April 9 - 
International American Homes Inc said it entered into a conditional
contract to acquire the <Maione-Hirschberg Cos Inc> and affiliated
entitles for 19 mln dlrs. International American, whose stock was
halted on Nasdaq earlier, said the purchase price is payable 12 mln
dlrs in cash and the balance in its own common shares. Selling
shareholders may earn an additional amount up to a maximum of eight
mln dlrs payable in cash based on the future performance of the
companies acquired during the three years ending March 31, 1990,
International said. The acquisition is subject to certain conditions,
such as satisfactory results of due diligence investigations, the
company said. Reuter 

STEWART <STEW.O> SELLS PLANT TO SARA LEE <SLE>
    NORFOLK, Va., June 2 - 
Stewart Sandwiches Inc said it has sold its coffee roasting plant to
Sara Lee Corp's Superior Coffee and Foods subsidiary for undisclosed
terms. The company said Superior will become the exclusive packer of
Squire labeled coffee products, which are marketed by Stewart, and
Stewart will provide equipment, service and distribution suppoort for
some Superior coffee accounts. Reuter 

INTERCO <ISS> SHAREHOLDERS APPROVE MERGER
    ST. LOUIS, Mo., April 13 - 
INTERCO Inc said its shareholders and shareholders of the Lane Co
<LANE.O> approved the merger of the two companies. In the merger,
Lane's stockholders will receive 1.5 shares of INTERCO common stock
for each outstanding share of Lane common stock, INTERCO said. Reuter


INVESTORS MAY TAKE COMPUTERLAND PUBLIC
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
The investor group that has agreed to buy <Computerland Corp> will
likely take the leading personal computer retailer public or sell it
to other investors, industry analysts said. "Now's a good time," said
Joe Levy of International Data Corp. "The personal computer industry
has bottomed out and is on the way up again," he said. Earlier today,
closely held Computerland, the largest PC retailing chain in the
country, said it agreed to be bought by an investor group led by E.M.
Warburg Pincus and Co, New York. Neither Computerland, which is 96 pct
owned by its founder, William H. Millard, nor E.M. Warburg, a money
management and venture capital firm, would disclose the value of the
transaction. Analysts estimated that Computerland, whose 800 stores
generated 1.4 billion dlrs in sales last year, would fetch 150 mln
dlrs to 250 mln dlrs. Computerland franchise owners pay royalties
averaging 5.9 pct to the parent company. Officials for E.M. Warburg
referred all questions to Computerland. Computerland officials could
not immediately be reached for comment. E.M. Warburg currently manages
1.5 billion dlrs in venture capital funds, and its past investments
have included Mattel Inc <MAT> and the Ingersoll newspaper chain. It
is also a money manager, with 3.5 billion dlrs under management.
Although the PC retailers are benefitting from the strong upturn in PC
sales, analysts said Computerland must make key changes if it is to
fend off advances from rivals like Businessland Inc <BUSL.O> and Tandy
Corp's <TAN> Radio Shack stores. "The name of the game now is outbound
sales forces, customer service and customer support," said Levy of
International Data. Relations between Computerland and its franchise
owners have mellowed recently after Millard was forced to give up
managment control of the company in 1985. Ed Faber, who took over as
chairman and chief executive officer, revamped the company's royalty
plan, which help quell much of the franchisee dissent. Reuter 

GROUP HAS 5.1 PCT OF AMERICAN PHYSICIANS<AMPH.O>
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
A group led by Far Hills, N.J., investors Natalie and Paul Koether
told the Securities and Exchange Commission it has acquired 299,523
shares of American Physicians Service Group Inc, or 5.1 pct of the
total. The Koether group said it bought the stock for 1.0 mln dlrs for
"capital appreciation" and may buy more. The group also said Paul
Koether met on June 8 with management representatives for talks that
included the company's business, potential acquisitions for the
company, possible opportunities to expand the company and the
possibility of Koether being named to its board. The group did not say
whether the talks resulted in any agreements. As they have done in
several SEC filings concerning other companies in which they have had
a stake, the Koethers said they reserve the right "to take any actions
which they deem appropriate to maximize the value of the shares," but
said they have no current plans about taking any action. While they
may buy more American Physicians shares, the Koethers also said they
may decide to sell some or all of the their stake in the company.
Reuter 

HEALTHSOUTH <HSRC.O> MAKES ACQUISITION
    BIRMINGHAM, Ala., June 2 - 
HEALTHSOUTH Rehabilitation Corp said it has acquired Pine Island
Sports Medicine Center in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and will incorporate
the facility into its HEALTHSOUTH Rehabilitation Center of Fort
Lauderdale, which is now under construction and should be in operation
by mid-summer. Terms were not disclosed. Reuter 

ORION <OC> HAS 5.2 PCT TWIN DISC <TDI> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Orion Capital Corp said it acquired 163,000 shares of Twin Disc Inc
common stock, or 5.2 pct of the company's common stock outstanding. In
a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Orion Capital
said the stock represents "a favorable investment opportunity at
current market prices." In open market transactions between August 21
and October 16, an Orion Capital subsidiary bought 56,200 Twin Disc
common shares at 21.06 dlrs to 22.43 dlrs a share. The entire 5.2 pct
stake was purchased at a cost of 3.2 mln dlrs, Orion Capital told the
SEC. Reuter 

DART GROUP DECLINES COMMENT ON DAYTON HUDSON<DH>
    New York, June 19 - 
Dart Group Corp <DARTA.O> said it has no comment on reports the
company has been accumulating shares of Dayton Hudson Corp. Dayton
Hudson said in a letter to shareholders it told an "aggressive buyer"
of its stock that it does not want to be acquired. Wall Street sources
have identified the buyer as Dart, which earlier this year was
thwarted in a takeover attempt for the now privately held Supermarkets
General Corp. Reuter 

AEGON N.V. <AEGN.AS> BUYS LIFE INVESTORS SHARES
    CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, June 2 - 
AEGON U.S. Holding Corp, a unit of AEGON N.V. of the Netherlands, and
Life Investors Inc <LINV.O> said they have purchased about 451,000
shares of Life Investors common stock for 51.61 dlrs per share cash.
The purchase is part of an agreement between the two companies made in
November 1981, saying that on or before each April 30 between 1983 and
1987 the companies would offer to buy one-sixth of the number of Life
Investors' common stock outstanding as of Dec. 31, 1982, not already
owned by AEGON. On Dec. 31 1988 they would offer to buy any and all
remaining shares. Reuter 

GILLETTE <GS> SEEN OBJECT OF GLOBAL BIDDING WAR
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Ronald Perelman, head of Revlon Group Inc <REV>, may be trying to
ignite a bidding war for Gillette Co that could draw some big
international players and in the process make a lot of money for
himself, Wall Street analysts said. Several hours before a regularly
scheduled board of directors meeting, Gillette disclosed that Perelman
requested consent of its board for an offer of at least 40.50 dlrs per
share. Perelman needed the consent because he agreed in November not
to buy stock for 10 years without permission. "I think Ronald Perelman
is less interested in Gillette and more interested in putting Gillette
into play because he stands to make a ton of money," said Andrew
Shore, analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. "In play" is a term
used on Wall Street to describe what happens when a company becomes an
unwiling takeover target. Shore noted that according to the 1986
agreement Revlon gets paid if there is any acquisition of Gillette
through November of this year at a price higher than 29.75 dlrs per
share. Gillette rose three to 40 today, following a gain of three
yesterday. The agreement would be calculated on the basis of
Perelman's previous holding of 18.4 mln shares, adjusted for a split.
For example, a deal between Gillette and some other company at 44 dlrs
per share would make Revlon richer by 262 mln dlrs under the formula.
Neither Perelman nor his spokesmen returned telephone calls seeking
comment. "Revlon stands to make a substantial amount of money if
someone else takes over Gillette," said Analyst Deepak Raj of Merrill
Lynch and Co. "I'm not saying that is going to happen but Gillette is
an undervalued stock with a breakup value of 45 dlrs per share." Shore
of Shearson Lehman said there are a couple of reasons why Perelman may
not be really interested in acquiring Gillette. He said Perelman, in
the process of taking Revlon private after acquiring control of the
cosmetics company two years ago, probably wants to concentrate on
improving Revlon's operations. "He's trying to overhaul and improve
the image of the dearptment store business." Another reason is that
Revlon has recently made two other acquisitions. Under those
circumstances, Shore would not be surprised if some company such as
Unilever plc <UN.AS> or Procter and Gamble Co <PG> decided to take a
look at Gillette. Shore mentioned half a dozen other potential buyers
for Gillette including Sir James Goldsmith, Hanson Trust plc <HAN>,
RJR Nabisco Inc <RJR>, American Brands Inc <AMB> and Ralston Purina Co
<RAL>. "Perelman is trying to put the company in play," said a Wall
Street arbitrageur. "He gets to share in the upside if the company is
sold." Another arbitrageur said he expects Gillette to resist
Perelman's overture. "I can't see the board consenting, what has
changed between November and now," he said. Another arbitrageur said
he was not sure what was going on. "Perelman never does anything
without a fair amount of calculation," he said. But he added, "The
Gillette board has to be careful. They just can't say no or they'll be
sued by shareholders." Gillette's board was still meeting at 1700 EDT,
three and one-half hours after the scheduled starting time. According
to a copy of Perelman's letter released by Gillette, he would be
prepared to sign a defnitive merger agreement without any financing
condition. He said Citibank N.A. is his lead lender and First Boston
Inc is his financial adviser. Reuter 

INDUSTRIAL EQUITY HAS 5.4 PCT OF TRITON <OIL>
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
A group of firms led by Hong Kong-based Industrial Equity (Pacific)
Ltd, said it acquired 969,515 shares of Triton Oil Corp common stock,
or 5.4 pct of the company's common stock outstanding. Industrial
Equity (Pacific), which is controlled by Brierley Investments Ltd
<BRYW.WE> and which has applied with U.S. antitrust regulators to buy
up to 50 pct of Triton's common stock, said the current 5.4 pct stake
was acquired for investment purposes. The company said it informed
Triton of its present "good faith intention" to buy more than 15 mln
dlrs worth of Triton stock. It said it also told Triton it "may
depending on market conditions acquire 50 pct or more and possibly 100
pct of the voting securities of (Triton)." It said it received
clearance to buy up to 50 pct of the stock on September 11. Industrial
Equity (Pacific) reported it bought 250,000 shares of Triton common
stock on October 8 at 22.50 dlrs a share. Reuter 

TEXAS AMERICAN BANCSHARES <TXA> TO SELL UNIT
    FORT WORTH, Texas, Oct 19 - 
Texas American Bancshares Inc said it agreed to sell its Texas
American Bank/Levelland unit to <First American Bancorp Inc> for about
12 mln dlrs in cash. Texas American said regulatory approval ofthe
transaction is expected in December, and the sale will close shortly
thereafter. Once the sale is completed, the unit's name will change to
First American Bank of Texas. The unit reported total assets of 196.7
mln dlrs on Juen 30, 1987. Reuter 

HBO <HBOC> URGES SHAREHOLDERS AGAINST ANDOVER
    ATLANTA, Ga., April 8 - 
HBO and Co said it sent a letter of strongly urging shareholders not
to sign any proxy cards sent by Andover Group. ON March 30, Andover
Group, a two-man general partnership which owns about seven pct of
HBO's stock, filed preliminary proxy materials with the Securities and
Exchange Commission seeking to nominate an alternative slate of
directors at the company's April 30 annual meeting. Andover had
expressed an interest to acquire the company in September 1986 but HBO
has never received an offer from them, it said. In addition, HBO said
its financial condition is improving rapidly as the result of a
significant restructuring implemented in 1986. It expects the company
to report net income of about 40 cts per share in 1987 and a very
significant increase in 1988. For the year ended December 1986, the
company reported a loss of 3.6 mln dlrs, or 16 cts per share. Reuter 

VIACOM SAYS FEDERAL COURT REJECTS REQUEST TO BLOCK PLANNED MERGER




NATIONAL HERITAGE <NHER> BUYS MANAGEMENT FIRM
    DALLAS, April 9 - 
National Heritage Inc said it acquired the assets of Chartham
Management Corp of Salem, Ore. Terms were not disclosed. The assets
acquired will be used to form a new divisional office serving the
northwest, the nursing home operator said. The newly acquired Salem
operation has management responsibility for about 2,500 beds in 28
nursing homes in seven states. Southmark Corp <SM>, which owns 80 pct
of National Heritage, recently agreed to acquire the 28 facilities.
National is the manager of nursing home properties owned by Southmark.
Reuter 

ENI UNIT AGIP PETROLI BUYS STAKE IN U.S. COMPANY
    Rome, June 2 - 
A subsidiary of state energy concern Ente Nazionali Idrocarburi
<ENTN.MI> (ENI) said it has acquired a 50 pct stake in <Steuart
Petroleum Co>, an independent U.S. Oil products company. Financial
terms were not disclosed. Agip Petroli Spa said in a statement that
the remaining 50 pct of the U.S. Firm is owned by <Steuart Investment
Co>, a holding company which also has interests transportation, hotels
and insurance. The Italian firm said Steuart Petroleum operates
primarily on the East Coast of the U.S. Reuter 

SEC CHARGES CAMPEAU'S ALLIED STORES WITH DISCLOSURE
VIOLATIONS IN RECENT TAKEOVER




SOUTHMARK <SM> ACQUIRES 28 NURSING HOMES
    DALLAS, April 8 - 
Southmark Corp said it acquired 28 long-term care facilities
containing for approximately 70 mln dlrs in cash. It said the
facilities, which contain approximately 2,500 beds in seven western
states, were bought from Don Bybee and Associates, of Salem,Ore. The
acquistion brings to 57 health care facilities acquired in the last
three months, the company said. Reuter 

UNITED ARTISTS <UACI.O> SUSPENDS MERGER TALKS
    DENVER, Oct 20 - 
United Artists Communications Inc and <United Cable Television Corp>
said they have indefinitely suspended negotiations on a proposed
merger of their companies previously announced. The companies cited a
combination of extraordinary market conditions and unresolved terms of
the merger as contributing to the action. Reuter 

DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIES (DMC) TO SELL UNITS
    ST. LOUIS, June 1 - 
Diversified Industries Inc plans to recover more than four mln dlrs
from the sale of two marginal subsidiaries, chairman Ben Fixman told
the annual meeting. Fixman said Diversified Industries, as part of its
effort to redeploy assets, wants to sell its Theodore Sall Inc and
Liberty Smelting Works (1962) Ltd units. The two either lost money or
had marginal profitability in recent years, he said. Diversified also
said it is in the process of obtaining six mln dlrs in an industrial
revenue bond financing from the State of Connecticut to modernize the
company's Plume and Atwood Brass Mill plant in Thomaston, Conn. Reuter


MARTIN PROCESSING SAID IT ACCEPTS 20 DLRS/SHARE BID FROM
COURTAULDS PLC




ENTERTAINMENT <EM> MAY SEEK CRAZY EDDIE <CRZY>
     WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
Enetertainment Marketing Inc and its president Elias Zinn have
demanded a list of Crazy Eddie Inc shareholders from the company and
said they may pursue a merger of the Edison, N.J. electronics
retailer. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Zinn said the demand for the shareholder list was made on June 26
because he may desire to communicate with other Crazy Eddie
shareholders "regarding the affairs" of the company. Zinn and his
firm, which disclosed they hold a 5.1 pct stake in Crazy Eddie common
stock, said they may acquire more shares through a negotiated merger
or tender offer. Entertainment Marketing was informed on June 25 by
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., acting on behalf of Crazy Eddie, that
it would be provided with "certain information" about Crazy Eddie, it
told the SEC. Entertainment Marketing, a Houston-based firm involved
in electronics wholesaling and televised home shopping sales, proposed
an eight dlr a share merger acquisition of Crazy Eddie on May 29, and
modified the proposal on June 9 to include the possible participation
of Crazy Eddie management. Entertainment Marketing told the SEC it
expects to meet with Crazy Eddie representatives in the near future.
Entertainment Marketing also disclosed that it retained Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc as its financial advisor and investment banker. In light
of a June 17 announcement from Crazy Eddie that Chemical Bank would no
longer fund a 52 mln dlr credit facility with the company, plus
further declines in the price of its stock, Entertainment Marketing
and Zinn said they are "continuing to evaluate their alternatives with
respect to their investment" in Crazy Eddie stock. Depending on its
evaluation of the company, including actions by Crazy Eddie's board
and any possible third party bids for the company, Entertainment
Marketing and its president said they may hold their present stake in
the company, sell some of their shares, or purchase more shares on the
open market, through private purchases or in connection with a merger
or tender offer. According to the SEC filing, Entertainment Marketing
and Zinn bought their current holdings of 1,560,000 Crazy Eddie common
shares between May 20 and June 17 at 7.42 dlrs to 7.93 dlrs a share,
or a total of about 11.9 mln dlrs. Reuter 

GABELLI FIRMS HAVE 28.5 PCT STAKE IN DIGIORGIO CORP, MAY
SEEK CONTROL




MITSUI BUYS FIVE PCT STAKE IN U.S. CHIP MAKER
    TOKYO, June 19 - 
Mitsui and Co Ltd <MITS.T> paid 1.5 mln dlrs in early May for a five
pct stake in <Zoran Corp>, a California-based maker of large scale
integrated circuits (LSI) with computer graphic, communications and
medical applications, a Mitsui spokesman told Reuters. He said the two
firms will form a marketing company in Japan as early as next year,
although details of the joint venture are not yet fixed. Mitsui
expects last year's 10 billion yen Japanese LSI market to grow
quickly. Zoran was founded in 1981 and now has about 100 employees, he
said. REUTER 

INVESTOR BOOSTS TRANS-LUX <TLX> STAKE
    MIAMI, April 13 - 
Investor Albert Kahn said in a statement that a group he heads
increased its stake in Trans-Lux Corp to 8.9 pct from 8.1 pct on a
fully diluted basis. Kahn said he indicated in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission that his group bought an additional
7,300 Trans-Lux common shares and 100,000 dlrs of nine pct convertible
subordinated debentures due 2005, convertible into an additional 6,803
shares. Kahn said he is considering seeking representation on the
Trans-Lux board and starting a proxy contest in connection with the
upcoming annual meeting. Kahn also said he is seeking an examination
of the Trans-Lux shareholder list and corporate books and records
under Delaware law. Trans-Lux is a Connecticut concern that leases
teleprinters and display units in brokerage offices, airports and
other public places. Kahn is a Miami insurance executive and investor.
Reuter 

CHRYSLER <C> RENAULT DELAY AM MOTORS <AMO> PACT
    DETROIT, April 8 - 
Chrysler Corp and Regie Natiionale des Usines Renault said they agreed
to extend by up to two weeks the period for reaching definitive
agreement on Chrysler's proposed 1.5 billion dlr takeover of American
Motors Corp. The letter of intent signed by Chrysler and Renault on
March nine set April nine as the target date for completing
negotiations. However, the letter also allowed room for an extension
of that date to April 23 if an agreement could not be reached. The two
companies said they "now plan to complete work by April 23." Chrysler
and Renault said, "Given the complex nature of the deal, the need for
additional time was to be expected." The March letter of intent
between the two companies says that Chrysler could ask Renault to
extend the agreement date "in the event that prior to April 9, 1987,
Chrysler discovers an unforeseen problem in the course of its 'due
diligence' investigation of the company," referring to American
Motors. A Chrysler spokeswoman would not say whether some problem had
cropped up in the talks. She stuck by the company's statement that
more time was needed because the talks are complex. "That is our
definition of the delay," she said. Under the previous agreement
between Chrysler and Renault, their letter of intent would be
terminated on April nine or when an agreement was reached. But the
letter could be amendend by a written agreement by both companies. The
Chrysler spokeswoman said, "We are still working toward a definitive
agreement." Said another Chrysler official who is not part of the
talks but who would be told if the deal were in trouble: "There are no
glitches." Analysts also downplayed the significance of the delay. "I
can't visualize where they wouldn't want it to be done," said
Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette analyst Richard Henderson. Reuter 

U.K. GEC DECLINES COMMENT ON U.S. PURCHASE RUMOUR
    LONDON, April 8 - 
General Electric Co Plc <GECL.L> (GEC) declined comment on rumours on
the London stock market that it is planning another purchase in the
U.S. Medical equipment field, in addition to its existing U.S.
Subsidiary <Picker International Inc>. A GEC spokesman said that it is
company policy not to comment on acquisition rumours. Stock Exchange
traders said the rumour helped GEC's share price to rise 5p, to a
final 206p from yesterday's closing price of 201p. Reuter 

SHAMROCK COMPLETES CENTRAL SOYA SALE TO FERRUZZI
    BURBANK, Calif., Oct 19 - 
Shamrock Capital LP said it has completed the sale of Cental Soya Co
Inc to Ferruzzi Agricola Finanziaria the holding company for the
Ferruzzi group of Ravenna, Italy. Shamrock Capital is a limited
partnership led by Shamrock Holdings Inc the Roy E. Disney family
company. Under the agreement announced last month, Ferruzzi acquired
all the equity and assumed subordinated term debt of about 195 mln
dlrs in a trction valued at about 370 mln dlrs. Reuter 

PARTNERSHIP UPS HBO <HBOC.O> STAKE TO 8.7 PCT
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
Andover Group, a Great Falls, Va., investment partnership that is
seeking control of HBO and Co, said it raised its stake in the company
to 2,026,000 shares, or 8.7 pct of the total, from 1,626,000 shares,
or 7.0 pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the partnership said it bought 400,000 HBO common shares for 5.4 mln
dlrs on May 28. The group, which has a slate of candidates seeking
board seats, said it would decide whether to submit an offer to
acquire the company after the HBO annual shareholders meeting, which
was to have been April 30, but was postponed. Reuter 

GLYNWED BUYS GALLAHER UNITS FOR AROUND 14 MLN STG
    LONDON, June 2 - 
Glynwed International Plc <GLYN.L> said it had bought all the issued
shares of two companies belonging to Gallaher Ltd, a subsidiary of
American Brands Inc <AMB>, in a deal worth around 14 mln stg. The full
names of the companies purchased from Gallaher are <Formatura
Iniezione Polimeri Spa>, Genoa and <FIP U.K. Ltd>, Weybridge.
Consideration for the purchases, which will be based on the net asset
values per share of the companies, has yet to be finalised but some
nine mln stg of the total represents debt assumed by Glynwed. FIP is a
manufacturer of valves and other pressure pipe fittings in
thermoplastics. Its products are complementary to those of Glynwed
subsidiaries, Durapipe U.K. And Philmac. The acquisitions appreciably
develop and strengthen Glynwed's strategic position in the
thermoplastic pipework systems market. The sale by Gallaher reflects a
decision to dispose of more peripheral businesses. Proceeds of the
sale will be used in the continuing expansion of the Gallaher group.
Glynwed shares were up 5p to 494 after the announcement. Gallaher is
not quoted on the London Stock Exchange. REUTER 

OREGON STEEL BUYS KAISER'S NAPA VALLEY PLANT
    PORTLAND, Ore., Oct 19 - 
Kaiser Steel Corp's plant in Napa, Calif, has been purchased by Oregon
Steel Mills for 16 mln dlrs, the privately owned Portland company
said. The transaction was approved by the U.S. bankruptcy judge in
Denver who is hearing Kaiser Steel's Chapter 11 reorganization case.
James Mccaughey, former vice president of sales for Kaiser, has been
named general manager for the plant, which will be called Napa Pipe
Corp, Oregon Steel said. Reuter 

A.H. ROBINS <QRAH> TO CONSIDER RORER OFFER
    RICHMOND, Va., June 29 - 
A.H. Robins Co said its board has concluded that the merger proposal
submitted by Rorer Group Inc <ROR> merits further consideration. At
the request of the board, Rorer has agreed to extend until 1800 EDT
July 2 its deadline for response from A.H. Robins. After Rorer
announced its second bid for the company last Thursday, analysts
forecast that the Robins family, which holds control of the company,
would vigourously oppose any merger. But, the analysts added, that
Robins desire to emerge independent from two years of bankruptcy
proceedings may be thwarted by some Robins' shareholders who perceive
a merger as a more expedient way of dealing with the company's Dalkon
Shield related liabilities. After a failed first attempt earlier this
year, Rorer's latest merger plan calls for a share swap worth about
720 mln dlrs. Rorer would also set up two trusts to cover the
estimated 1.75 billion dlrs in liabilities to deal with about 320,000
claims by women who suffered maladies from the use of the Dalkon
Shield interuterine device. Reuter 

NAT'L DISTILLERS SAYS IT AGREES TO SELL SPIRITS UNIT FOR 545 MLN DLRS TO AMERICAN BRANDS




MEPC EXTENDS OFFER FOR OLDHAM
    LONDON, April 9 - 
MEPC Plc <MEPC.L> said that its offer for <Oldham Estates Ltd> would
remain open until further notice. On February 26 MEPC made an agreed
bid for Oldham based on a formula reflecting its asset value at 30
September 1986. A year earlier Oldham's net asset value was put at
531.4 mln stg. As of 1 April the valuation used under the formula had
still to be agreed so Oldham had yet to give a firm recommendation to
its shareholders regarding the value of the the offer. REUTER 

BASTIAN TECHNOLOGIES MULLING COSMO <CSMO.O> BID
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
New York-based Bastian Technologies Corp said it acquired a five pct
stake in Cosmo Communications Corp, and is considering a move to seek
control of the company or to secure a role in its affairs. "Bastian
Technologies believes that with the appropriate management policies
and business strategies, the company can once again become profitable
and maximize for all shareholders the underlying value of their
company," Bastian said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Bastian said alternatives being considered include an
attempt to acquire Cosmo through a merger, tender or exchange offer,
seeking to influence the company's management and policies, and
seeking representation on Cosmo's board of directors through a proxy
contest or otherwise. Bastian said it may contact third parties
regarding its intentions toward Cosmo, adding it intends to request a
meeting with Cosmo representatives to discuss its investment in Cosmo
stock. Bastian currently holds 253,700 Cosmo common shares, or five
pct of the total outstanding. The shares were purchased from Nasta
International Inc <NAS> on October 16 for about 1.15 mln dlrs, Bastia
said. Reuter 

CONISTON GROUP TO CONTINUE BID FOR ALLEGIS <AEG>
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
An investor group led by Coniston Partners said it plans to continue
its effort to gain control of Allegis Corp despite the defensive
maneuvers Allegis announced last week. Allegis said then that it would
borrow three billion dlrs and pay shareholders a dividend of 60 dlrs
per share, lowering the company's net worth. The Coniston group, which
owns 13 pct of Allegis stock, has said that it would seek shareholder
consents to remove 13 of the 16 Allegis directors. The group had said
it would consider breaking up Allegis into its airline, hotel and
vehicle rental components if it succeeded. The Coniston group said it
expects to make a further announcement today on its plans for Allegis.
Wall Street analysts and traders had not expected Coniston to abandon
its pursuit of Allegis as a result of the Allegis defensive measures.
Allegis officials were unavailable for comment. Reuter 

GROUP CUTS ZONDERVAN<ZOND.O> STAKE TO 3.8 PCT
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
One of several investor groups formerly associated with London
investor Christopher Moran in his unsuccessful bid to take over
Zondervan Corp last year, said it cut its stake in the company to less
than five pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the group, led by investors Lawrence Altschul and James
Apostolakis, said it cut its Zondervan stake to 157,500 shares, or 3.8
pct of the total, from 246,500 shares, or 5.9 pct. The group, which
earlier this month said in an SEC filing it wanted join with other
groups to maximize share values, said it sold 89,000 shares between
June 9 and 15 for 1.5 mln dlrs. The group had joined with the Moran
group, which last year assembled a combined 44 pct stake in Zondervan
during its unsuccessful takeover try. Last month, the Moran group
broke up and splintered into various factions. Moran himself withdrew
from the takeover effort and last reported his personal stake at 4.8
pct. A group led by Miwok Capital Corp, a California broker with a
10.6 pct stake, and another one led by Minneapolis stockbroker Jeffrey
Wendel with 2.6 pct, have both made recent SEC filings saying they are
seeking agreements with other parties who may want to seek control of
the company. Reuter 

TAKEOVER BATTLE FOR DOME PETROLEUM BEGINS
    TORONTO, April 13 - 
A takeover battle began today for debt-burdened Dome Petroleum Ltd
<DMP.MO> as TransCanada PipeLines Ltd <TRP.TO> announced a 4.3 billion
dlr offer and Dome said it is continuing talks with other possible
buyers. Companies mentioned in market speculation as potential buyers
for Dome include Imperial Oil Ltd <IMO.A> which is 70 pct owned by
Exxon Corp <XON.N>, <PanCanadian Petroleum Ltd> which is 87 pct owned
by the conglomerate Canadian Pacific Ltd <CP.N> and British Petroleum
Co Plc <BP.L>. Along with the TransCanada offer, Dome has had another
proposal from "a substantial company" and discussions with a third
company which could lead to an offer, Dome said in a statement. The
statement confirmed Dome received TransCanada's bid, but did not
identify the companies involved in talks. TransCanada, Canada's
largest natural gas pipeline operator, said it is offering Dome a
package of cash, common and preferred shares, and shares in a new
subsidiary which would own and operate Dome's assets. TransCanada said
the offer is to Dome management, not to shareholders. Dome has massive
oil and gas landholdings in Canada, totalling 36.1 mln acres of which
7.4 mln have been developed. It also has tax credits worth about 2.5
billion dlrs. Dome's statement said the TransCanada announcement
"violated the terms and spirit of a confidentiality agreement entered
into with prospective purchasers" and was apparently timed to prevent
Dome from considering other proposals. It said the TransCanada bid
"seems to require favourable and substantial taxation concessions from
the federal and provincial governments." But Dome added that its
management and financial advisers will evaluate all proposals.
TransCanada chief financial officer H. Neil Nichols said he was
surprised at the vehemence of Dome's statement and denied that
TransCanada was trying to usurp other bids. "I find (Dome's statement)
very bothersome. Once the board made the decision to authorise the
proposal, it had a legal obligation to announce it," he said. Nichols
said he did not know the identity of the other bidders, or the terms
of other offers. Dome common shares closed at 1.13 dlrs on Friday on
the Toronto Stock Exchange. The preferred class A stock closed at 5.00
dlrs. Common stock traded as high as 25.00 dlrs in 1981. REUTER 

DAY INT'L <DAY> TO SELL UNIT
    DAYTON, Ohio, April 8 - 
Day International Corp said it has entered into a letter of intent to
sell its Allen Industries Inc unit to a group including the unit's
current management. Day said the sale could enable Day to accelerate
its earnings for its current fiscal year ending October 31, 1987. "Net
earnings for the full year (ending October 31) should be in the ball
park of some analysts' estimates of 16 mln dlrs to 19 mln dlrs,"
Richard Jacob, Day chairman and chief executive officer said. Day
reported earnings of 3.1 mln dlrs, or 39 cts a share, in fiscal 1986.
Day said the agreement is subject to the preparation and negotiation
of a definitive agreement and the ability of the group to obtain
financing. Reuter 

USPCI <UPC> SEEN REJECTING UNION PACIFIC BID
    CHICAGO, June 1 - USPCI Inc likely will reject a 43-dlr-a-
share bid made last Wednesday by Union Pacific Corp (UNP), analysts
said. "The offer is inadequate," said Douglas Augenthaler, an analyst
with E.F. Hutton, noting that it does not represent the needed premium
over the company's fundamental value based on earnings estimates.
USPCI, which has 8.7 mln shares outstanding, was trading at 48-1/8,
down 3/8. USPCI vice president of finance Larry Shelton said he could
not comment on the adequacy of the offer or on when the board would
meet to consider it. Augenthaler said that while USPCI was trading at
only 34 dlrs a share at the time of the takeover bid, its announcement
that same day of higher earnings expectations changed its value. USPCI
said its second quarter earnings would exceed analysts expectations of
24 to 30 cts a share. At that price, USPCI could maintain a stock
price in the low 40s, Augenthaler said. Hutton revised its 1987
earnings estimate for the waste management concern to 1.40 dlrs a
share from 1.20 dlrs on the announcment, he said. It lifted its 1988
projection to 1.90 dlrs a share from 1.70 dlrs. In addition, analysts
said the hazardous waste management business holds significant growth
potential. The industry has grown from 16 to 35 pct over the last five
years, based on earnings per share, said Jeffrey Klein, an analyst
with Kidder Peabody and Co. The industry is expected to continue
growing at 15 to 35 pct over the next five years, he said. Augenthaler
said the 43-dlr-a-share offer, or 375 mln dlrs total, would be a
bargain for Union Pacific. The transportation and energy company would
both gain entry into a profitable business and win cost-control
benefits, he said. "Union Pacific has what are rumored to be some
fairly signficant environmmental problems of its own," he said. Herb
Mee Jr., president of Beard Oil Co (BEC), which holds a 30.4 pct stake
in USPCI, said last week Union Pacific's offer was "grossly
inadequate." Reuter 

NORTHVIEW <NOVC.O> PLANS TO SELL COMPANY
    SAN DIEGO, Calif., Oct 19 - 
Northview Corp said it reached an agreement in principal covering the
acquisition of the company by privately-held Calmark Financial Corp.
The agreement calls for Northview to make a self-tender offer for all
of its outstanding stock at a price of 22 dlrs per share in cash.
Calmark, headquartered in Los Angeles, develops, manages and
syndicates real estate, Northview also said. Reuter 

BLUE ARROW TO BUY U.S. RICHARDS COMPANIES
    LONDON, April 13 - 
<Blue Arrow Plc> said it had agreed terms to acquire a group of U.S.
Companies collectively known as the <Richards Companies>, which
specialise in executive recruitment and management consultancy on
personnel matters. The total consideration will be 29 mln U.S. Dlrs of
which 50 pct will be payable in cash and 50 pct by the issue of 1.36
mln new ordinary shares in Blue Arrow. The Richard Companies made a
pre-tax profit of 3.6 mln dlrs in the year to end-1986, on turnover of
7.1 mln dlrs with net tangible assets at the end of 1986 of 3.4 mln
dlrs. Blue Arrow shares were trading 9p lower at 670 this morning.
REUTER 

DAYTON HUDSON SAID IT TOLD BUYER OF STOCK IT's not
INTERESTED IN BEING ACQUIRED




LEASEWAY TRANSPORTATION <LTC>COMPLETES UNIT SALE
    CLEVELAND, June 18 - 
Leaseway Transportation Corp said it has completed the previously-
announced sale of its Leaseway of Puerto Rico Inc subsidiary to Caguas
Central Federal Savings Bank for undisclosed terms. The company said
the sale satisfied a condition for its proposed acquisition by an
investor group led by Citicorp <CCI>. Reuter 

ROYAL GOLD <RGLD.O> AGREES TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    DENVER, June 1 - 
Royal Gold Inc said it has signed two agreements in principle to
acquire the stock of two <Transwestern Mining Co> units for 1.1 mln
shares of Royal Gold common stock. Royal said the assets of the units
it will acquire from Transwestern are mostly gold properties. It added
it expects to close the deals on June 18 and 19, subject to standard
closing conditions, including title and environmental approval and
closing of a definitive agreement. Royal said the shares issued in the
deal will be subject to registration rights. Reuter 

FIRST DATA MANAGEMENT <FDMC.O> COMPLETES MERGER
    OKLAHOMA CITY, June 18 - 
First Data Management co Inc said it has completed a merger into
Firsst Data MAnagement Holding co following sharehoplder approval. It
said each 100 shares will be exchanged for 1,000 dlrs principal amount
of 14.375 pct senior subordinated debentures due June 15, 2002. Reuter


HOLIDAY CORP <HIA> SELLS STAKE IN VENTURE
    WICHITA, Ka., April 17 - 
Residence Inn Corp said it has agreed to buy Holiday Corp out of their
equaly-owned joint venture for 51.4 mln dlrs, with closing expected
within the next few weeks. The all-suite Residence Inn system, which
is geated to extended stays, currently has 93 open franchised or
company-owned hotels nationwide and another 55 in construction or
development. Reuter 

MEDIA GENERAL <MEGA> FAMILY WONT SELL SHARES
    RICHMOND, Va., Oct 19 - 
Media General Inc's chairman, D. Tennant Bryant, said his family would
not sell its controlling share block, so it would be impossible for an
investor group led by <Giant Group Ltd> to gain control of the
company. The investor group, which includes Barris Industries
<BRRS.O>, recently reported that it acquired a 9.8 pct stake of Media
General's class A shares and might seek control. Bryant said the
company's class A stock elects only 30 pct of the board, with the
remaining 70 pct being elected by class B shares, two-thirds of which
are controlled by the Bryant family trust, which has no intention of
selling its shares. Reuter 

DISNEY FAMILY MAKES BID FOR HOLLY SUGAR <HLY>
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
The Roy Disney family disclosed in a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission that it made a bid to acquire Holly Sugar Corp for
a package of cash and securities. Shamrock Holdings of California Inc,
a Disney family company, said it submitted the bid on April 8 to
Salomon Brothers Inc, Holly Sugar's investment banker. The offer was
for 45 dlrs in cash, securities with a face value of 70 dlrs, and a
"contingent payment certificate" that would pay out as much as 70 dlrs
over a 20-year period for each share of Holly Sugar outstanding. The
Disney family already holds 101,300 Holly Sugar shares or 9.0 pct of
the total outstanding following purchases of 12,500 shares March
13-April 17, Shamrock told the SEC. Shamrock said it had asked for
certain information about Holly Sugar's financial condition but had
been turned down. It said its offer was therefore subject to further
discussions. "Once we have had an opportunity to complete our due
diligence evaluation of the company, including inspections of certain
facilities and meetings with key management personnel, we would be
prepared to negotiate all aspects of our proposal, including price,"
it said in its April 8 letter. REUTER^M 

CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS <COMM.O> CLOSES BUYOUT
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
Cellular Communications Inc said that a unit purchased a 6.99 pct
interest in the Cincinnati non-wireline cellular system. As a result
of the transaction, the company said it now owns 100 pct of the system
in Cincinnati. Reuter 

FUNDAMENTAL BROKERS BUYS PART OF MKI BROKERS
    NEW YORK, April 9 - 
Fundamental Brokers Institutional Associates, a leading inter-dealer
broker in U.S. government securities, said it has agreed to acquire
certain assets of MKI Government Brokers Inc for undisclosed terms.
Acquisition documents have been signed and are being held in escrow
pending the receipt of certain consents, it said. In conjunction with
the sale of assets, MKI has ceased brokering treasury bills, notes and
bonds, Fundamental said. Industry sources told Reuters yesterday that
Fundamental was close to acquiring the government securities brokerage
division of MKI, a major broker of corporate bonds. Fundamental said
it intends to use the facilities formerly used by MKI to provide a new
block brokering service in the most active Treasury issues. By
separating the execution of wholesale trades from the heavy volume of
smaller lots, large-scale transactions will be facilitated, the
company said. "The new system is expected to substantially enhance the
liquidity and effiency of markets," Fundamental said. The wholesale
brokering service will begin on or around April 20. Reuter 

FIRST <FBT> REITERATES SPECULATION PREMATURE
    HOUSTON, June 19 - 
First City Bancorp of Texas Inc, which is soliciting bidders,
reiterated that it is premature to speculate on what course of action
it will pursue following a story in today's Wall Street Journal that
it has attracted at least three potential acquirers. First City said
the article was not confirmed by the company, and it cautioned that
there is "absotluely nothing to say or report beyond" its statement.
The Journal reported that among the bidders for First city was Robert
Carney and Robert Abboud, a former Chicago banker. Reuter 

BSN <BSN> HAS PURCHASED MACGREGOR <MGS> STOCK
    DALLAS, June 29 - 
BSN Corp said it purchased MacGregor Sporting Goods' common stock in
recent open market transactions. BSN said its position is less than
the five pct ownership which would require specific disclosure. The
company will continually review its position and may nelect to
increase or decrease the number of shares owned, it added. Reuter 

CRAZY EDDIE <CRZY> SETS DEFENSIVE RIGHTS
    EDISON, N.J., April 13 - 
Crazy Eddie Inc said its board has adopted a defensive shareholder
rights plan and said it has received "friendly inquiries" on its
acquisition. It said under the plan, shareholdrs of record as of April
21 will receive a right to purchase under certain circumstances at a
price of 42 dlrs 0.01 preferred share for each common share held. The
rights will expire April Nine. The company said the rights would be
exercisable 20 business days after a party were to acquire 20 pct or
more of Crazy Eddie common stock or announce a tender or exchange
offer that would result in ownership of 30 pct or more. Crazy Eddie
said if a party owning 20 pct or more of its stock were to merge into
it or if a party were to acquire 40 pct or more of Crazy Eddie stock,
right holders other than the acquiring party would be entitled to
acquire common shares or other securities or assets with a market
value equal to twice the rights' exercise price. If after a party
acquired 20 pct or more of its stock Crazy Eddie were acquired or 50
pct of its earnings power or assets sold, rightholders other than the
acquirer would be entitled to buy shares of the acquirer's common
stock worth twice the rights' exercise price, the company said. Crazy
Eddie said if a party were to acquire 30 pct or more of its common
stock and then fail to acquire Crazy Eddie within 180 days thereafter,
rightholders would be entitled to exchange their Crazy Eddie common
stock for subordinated notes of Crazy Eddie maturing either one year
or, above a certain dollar limt, five years after issuance. Crazy
Eddie said adoption of the plan is not in response to any known effort
to acquire control of it. But the company said it has become aware of
some "possible accumulations" of its stock has has received some
"friendly inquiries." Reuter 

HADSON CORP <HADS.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    OKLAHOMA CITY, Okla., April 13 - 
Hadson Corp said it completed the acquisition of 85 pct of the Seaxe
Energy Corp's <SEAX.O> common stock for 182,415 shares of Hadson's
stock. Seaxe is engaged in international oil and gas exploration and
development primarily in the Paris basin of France. Reuter 

REED INTL DENIES BID APPROACH
    LONDON, June 19 - 
Reed International Plc <REED.L> denied rumours on the U.K. Stock
market that it was the target of a takeover bid and said it had
received no approach. "In view of the increase in our share price
today, I want to make clear that we have not received any bid
approaches," Reed's chairman Leslie Carpenter said in a statement.
Rumours that U.S. Publisher Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc <HBJ> might
bid for Reed, a paper and printing company, pushed Reed shares up 54p
at 600p at one stage today before they eased back to 564p at the close
against a background of a widespread decline in U.K. Equity prices.
Share market analysts said speculators were buying the stock on belief
that Harcourt would bid for Reed in an effort to escape the unwelcome
two billion dlr bid from Robert Maxwell's British Printing and
Communication Corp <BPCL.L>. Such a move would have made Harcourt too
big for BPCC to take it over, analysts added. They also said there was
some speculation that if BPCC's bid for Harcourt was unsuccessful, it
could turn its attention to Reed. Reuter 

ATLANTIS <AGH> MAY BID FOR CHARTER-CRELLIN<CRTR.O>
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Atlantis Group Inc said it bought 100,000 shares of Charter-Crellin
Inc common stock, or 6.3 pct of the total outstanding, and may seek
control in a negotiated transaction. In a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, Atlantis said it has informally discussed a
business combination with Charter-Crellin management. But the company
said it has not held negotiations with Charter-Crellin and does not
intend to initiate further discussions. Pending development of
specific proposals, Atlantis said it will continue to purchase
additional Charter-Crellin shares in private or open market
transactions depending on a range of factors including the market
price of the stock. Atlantis said it bought its Charter-Crellin common
stock in open market transactions between September 22 and October 7
at 14.91 dlrs to 15.62 dlrs a share, or for a total of about 1.51 mln
dlrs. Reuter 

DOME <DMP> BENEFITS FROM TAKEOVER SPECULATION
    Toronto, April 13 - 
Shares of Dome Petroleum Ltd posted their biggest gain in months in
the U.S. and Canada as stock markets foresaw a takeover tug-of-war
beginning for the debt-heavy company. Dome rose 1/4 to 1-1/8 on the
American Stock Exchange and gained 31 cents to 1.44 Canadian dlrs on
the Toronto Stock Exchange, where it was the most active stock. It
rose as high as 1.50 dlrs in Toronto during the day. In recent months,
Dome has normally moved by only a few cents per day. TransCanada
PipeLines yesterday announced a 4.3 billion dlr Canadian (3.22 billion
U.S.) bid for all of Dome's assets, but Dome, which is based in
Calgary, Alberta, said it is also still talking with two other
companies, which it refuses to identify. Market analysts today said
the other two firms are believed to be foreign oil companies, noting
that TransCanada yesterday stressed that its bid is "a Canadian
solution to the financial difficulties of Dome Petroleum." "The talk
is about Conoco, which is controlled by DuPont <DD>, and Atlantic
Richfield Co <ARC>, which sold its Canadian interest in 1975 and could
be getting back in," said Wilf Gobert of Peters and Co Ltd. David
Bryson of Moss Lawson and Co also noted that British Petroleum PLC
<BP> is mentioned as a possible buyer, despite BP's 70 U.S. dlr per
share bid two weeks ago for the 45 percent of Standard Oil Co <SRD> it
does not already own. Calgary-based independent analyst James Hamilton
has said in recent reports that Amoco Corp <AN> has also been in talks
with Dome. Representatives of Atlantic Richfield, British Petroleum,
Conoco and Amoco were not immediately available for comment. Gobert
characterized the market action in Dome today as "awfully optimistic,"
given TransCanada's offer to give current Dome shareholders stock in a
new subsidiary, which it valued at 1.10 dlrs Canadian per common
share. Under the offer, current Dome common and preferred shareholders
would own 20 pct of the new subsidiary, which would own and operate
all Dome's former assets. TransCanada would own 80 pct. However,
Bryson said the market may be looking at the potential for shares in a
publicly-traded subsidiary. "The TransCanada offer has quite a bit of
upside potential for Dome," he said. Gobert said he believes the
TransCanada offer is "at the upper end of what I thought somebody
would pay for Dome." The TransCanada proposal would pay Dome's
creditors 3.87 billion Canadian dlrs (2.90 billion U.S. dlrs), with
another one billion Canadian dlrs (750 mln U.S. dlrs) available to
secured creditors if the Dome subsidiary earns profits above a certain
level. TransCanada would not detail the profit level. Dome currently
is seeking to restructure about six billion Canadian dlrs (4.5 billion
U.S. dlrs) in debt, which it took on several years ago when oil prices
were high and the company wanted to expand. "There has been
speculation that Dome's assets are capable of supporting debt of three
to four billion dlrs, so on that basis, the TransCanada offer would be
at the upper end of that," Gobert said. Dome's debt troubles have
often obscured the fact that it is a major player in the Canadian oil
and gas field. It holds reserves of about 176 mln barrels of crude oil
and 3.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas. The company also owns or
has an interest in 14.2 mln acres of oil and gas exploration land in
the province of Alberta, the heart of Canada's oil industry. Dome owns
or has an interest in a total of 36.1 mln acres of land across Canada.
The company also has tax credits of about 2.5 billion dlrs Canadian
(1.9 billion dlrs U.S.). It reported a 1986 loss of 2.2 billion dlrs
(1.65 billion dlrs U.S.), believed to be the largest ever by a
Canadian company. Reuter 

TRANSAMERICA <TA> UNIT BUYS REINSURANCE UNIT
    LOS ANGELES, Oct 19 - 
Transamerica Insurance Group, the main property-liability insurance
operation of Transamerica Corp, said it signed a definitive agreement
to acquire a newly-formed insurer, Commerical Risk Underwriters
Insurance Co, from <Clarendon Group Ltd>. Transamerica said the unit,
which will be renamed Transamerica Reinsurance Co, will initially be
capitalized at about 185 mln dlrs. Transamerica said the acquisition
represents its first move into specialty treaty reinsurance. The
company said about 28 members of Clarendon will join Transamerica as
part of the acquisition, which is expected to close in November and is
subject to various regulatory approvals. Reuter 

FOOTHILL <FGI>, SIERRITA IN STANDSTILL ACCORD
    LOS ANGELES, April 9 - 
Foothill Group Inc said it reached a standstill agreement with Santa
Cruz Resources Inc and its parent, Sierrita Resources Inc, that bars
the companies from acquiring more than a 30 pct interest in Foothill,
except through a business combination approved by Foothill's board.
The company also said Santa Cruz has advised it that it owns 24.7 pct
of Foothill's outstanding common stock. In addition, Santa Cruz and
Sierrita have agreed to vote their shares in accordance with
instructions from the Foothill board in connection with certain
business combinations and certain anti-takeover matters, Foothill
said. Foothill said the arrangement also bars Santa Cruz and Sierrita
fron tendering any Foothill securities owned by them into any tender
offer unless certain unspecified conditions are met. Reuter 

MONTROSE HOLDING TO ACQUIRE VIRGINIA FEDERAL
    RICHMOND, Va., June 2 - 
<Virginia Federal Savings and Loan Association> said it has signed a
definitive agreement to be acquired by <Montrose Holding Co>, an
affiliate of <Montrose Capital Corp> for 20 mln dlrs. Virginia Federal
and Montrose Capital said the agreement provides for the conversion of
Virginia Federal from a mutual to a stock association and the purchase
of 100 pct of its stock for 20 mln dlrs by Montrose. According to the
companies, Virginia Federal has over 700 mln dlrs in assets and
operates 16 branches in Virginia. Virginia Federal said the proceeds
would enable it to provide increased mortgage and lending services and
enable the company to compete more effectively in the Virginia market.
The companies said the agreement is subject to Federal Home Loan Bank
Board approval, expected later this year. Additionally, the companies
said the converted association would be managed by a board of
directors consisting of the six current Virginia Federal directors and
two representatives of Montrose Holding. The senior management of
Virginia Federal was expected to continue in office after the
conversion, the companies said. Reuter 

CHRYSLER <C> NON-PROFIT GROUP SELLS UNIT
    DETROIT, April 13 - 
Chrysler Corp's Chrysler Motors Corp said its Chrysler Training Corp
non-profit organization sold the name and assets of its Motech Auto
Mechanic and Body Shop Schools to O/E Corp of Troy, Mich. The sale
price was not disclosed. Under the Internal Revenue Service code,
proceeds from the sale of Motech must be donated to another tax-exempt
nonprofit organization. Chrysler did not reveal the name of the group
that received the proceeds. Reuter 

SOUTHMARK <SM> ACQUIRES BERG VENTURES
    DALLAS, June 18 - 
Southmark Corp said it acquired Berg Ventures Inc, which manages 84
apartment complexes with over 18,000 units and 12 shopping centers
stretching from New Jersey to Florida that are controlled or
affiliated with Berg Harmon Associates. Terms were not disclosed.
Southmark said the acquisition makes it the nation's largest apartment
management firm with over 100,000 units under its wing. Southmark also
said it has become the managing partner of Berg Harmon Associates.
Over 3,000 Berg Harmon Limited partners have made capital investments
of over 300 mln dlrs in the properties now managed by Southmark.
Reuter 

OREGON STEEL BUYS KAISER'S NAPA VALLEY PLANT
    PORTLAND, Ore., Oct 19 - 
<Kaiser Steel Corp>'s plant in Napa, Calif., has been purchased by
Oregon Steel Mills for 16 mln dlrs, the privately owned Portland
company said. The transaction was approved by the U.S. bankruptcy
judge in Denver who is hearing Kaiser Steel's Chapter 11
reorganization case. James Mccaughey, former vice president of sales
for Kaiser, has been named general manager for the plant which will be
called Napa Pipe Corp, Oregon Steel said. Reuter 

RAPID-AMERICAN COMPLETES K MART <KM> STORE BUY
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Privately-held Rapid-American Corp said it has completed the
previously-announced acquisition of 66 Kresge and Jupiter stores from
K Mart Corp. The company said it plans to operate 57 of the stores as
McCrory Five and 10 variety stores and close the others by the end of
July. Reuter 

US STUDY DISCUSSES DROPPED COMSAT-CONTEL MERGER
    WASHINGTON, April 23 - 
A congressional study today said the proposed, but now apparently
abandoned, merger of the Communications Satellite Corp <CQ> and Contel
Corp <CTC> would technically be legal but could violate the spirt of
the law setting up COMSAT. Two weeks ago before the study was
completed, Contel announced it would seek to terminate the proposed
merger. The study by the non partisan Congressional Research Service
(CRS) said "the proposed merger appears to comply, technically, with
the mandates or letter of statutes, if may nevertheless violate the
spirit of the law." Comsat, created by a 1962 act of Congress, and
Contel, a corporation of local telephone and communications firms,
filed with the Federal Communications Commission last November 3 an
application for merger. Several firms had protested the proposed
merger. In an analysis of the law, the research service issued several
critical comments about the structure of the new firm and said
apparent domination by Contel of a restructured COMSAT would have
broken the spirit of the law setting up COMSAT.COMSAT is the U.S. arm
of Intelstat, the international satellite communications firm.
Reuter...^M 

<CLARK COPY INTERNATIONAL> BUYS W. GERMAN STAKE
    ELK GROVE VILLAGE, Ill., April 13 - 
Clark Copy International Corp said it acquired a majority interest in
Datagraph GMBH of Lich, West Germany. The acquisition was made through
Clark Copy's majority owned subsidiary Interactive Computer Aids of
Norway. No price was disclosed for the acquisition. Clark Copy said
worldwide sales for Datagraph, which makes color graphics
workstations, were 10 mln dlrs for the year ended Dec. 31, 1986.
Reuter 

MULTIFOODS <IMC> FILES SUIT AGAINST BREGMAN
    MINNEAPOLIS, MINN., Oct 19 - 
International Multifoods Corp said it filed a suit charging Bregman
Partners and its affiliates unlawfully planned to acquire control of
the company. In a suit filed in U.S. District Court, International
Multifoods said Bregman Partners and its affiliates, who reportedly
hold 7.4 pct of the company's shares, tried to induce Multifood's
management to join them in an effort to take the company private and
give controlling interest to Bregman Partners. Bregman Partners
include the interests of the Belzberg families of Canada. The
complaint also discloses that on each occasion, Multifoods management
rejected the group's overtures. Multifoods is asking Bregman's group
to divest its shares in open market sales in a manner not to further
disrupt the market place, according to the suit. The suit seeks
compensatory and punitive damages in an amount to be determined. In
addition, Multifoods is seeking to stop Bregman Partners from
acquiring any more stock, or voting the shares it reportedly owns, the
suit said. According to Multifoods, the actions proposed by Bregman
Partners would prevent shareholders from realizing the full benefits
of the company's restructuring. In the past three years, Multifoods
has substantially altered its domestic business mix by divesting its
U.S. consumere foods operations and emphasizing growth in selected
segments of the U.S. foodservice industry. Reuter 

ANCHOR FINANCIAL <AFCX> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    MYRTLE BEACH, S.C., April 9 - 
Anchor Financial Corp said it has agreed to acquire Waccamaw State
Bank of Surfside Beach, S.C., in an exchange of 1.435 Anchor shares
for each Waccamaw share, subject to regulatory and shareholder
approvals. Waccamaw had assets of 22.8 mln dlrs as of March 31. Reuter


GILLETTE <GS> GETS OFFER FROM REVLON <REV>
    BOSTON, June 18 - 
Gillette Co said Revlon Group made an unsolicited request, asking the
Gillette board to allow Revlon to make a cash offer for all Gillette
shares of at least 40.50 dlrs per share. Gillette said consent for the
bid is required under a standstill agreement between Revlon and
Gillette before Revlon can make any move on Gillette's stock. In
November 1986, Revlon made an unsolicited offer for Gillette shares,
Gillette said. Subsequently, Revlon withdrew its offer, sold back to
Gillette the shares it owned at that time and entered into the
standstill agreement. The Gillette board of directors has a regularly
scheduled meeting this afternoon, and Gillette said it anticipates
making a statement after that meeting. Reuter 

PAY 'N PAK <PNP> RECEIVES AMENDED PROPOSAL
    KENT, Wash., June 2 - 
Pay 'N Pak Stores Inc said it received a revision to one of the two
previously disclosed proposals to buy the company. Pay 'N Pak said
that the proposal from a leveraged buyout firm had been amended to
increase the dividend rate on the cumulative preferred stock to be
received by PNP shareholders from 13.5 pct to 17.5 pct. As previoiusly
announced, the proposal calls for a transaction in which PNP
shareholders would receive a combination of 17.50 dlrs in cash and
2.50 dlrs in liquidation value of cumulative preferred stock for each
common share. Under the other proposal received from Paul Bilzerian,
PNP shareholders would receive on a blended basis 16.67 dlrs in cash
and 3.33 dlrs in liquidation value of cumulative redeemable preferred
stock for each common share, the company said. Under the Bilzerian
proposal, the dividend rate on the preferred stock would be set so
that in the joint opinion of the financial advisor to Bilzerian and
the financial advisor to Pay 'N Pak, the preferred stock would trade
at its liquidation value on a fully distributed basis, the company
said. Reuter 

KAY <KAY> TO ACQUIRE SPECIALTY FASTENER FIRM
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
Kay Corp said its Balfour, Maclaine International Ltd subsidiary
signed a letter of intent to acquire certain assets of a privately-
owned distributor of specialty fasteners for about 13 mln dlrs plus
management incentives, which it did not disclose. Kay said the firm
has annual sales of about 15 mln dlrs. Kay also said it is pursuing
private placement of debt securities for a number of corporate
purposes. Reuter 

BOSTON FIVE <BFCS.O>, NEWORLD <NWOR.O> TO MERGE
    BOSTON, April 13 - 
Boston Five Cents Savings Bank said it and Neworld Bank for Savings
have agreed to merge, forming a new holding company, Boston Five
Bancorp. Boston Five said the proposal calls for its holders to
receive 1.163 shares of the new company's stock for each share now
held and for Neworld Bank holders to recieve one share for each share
held in a tax free exchange. Boston Five said the planned merger with
Newworld Bank for Savings Will create the largest savings bank in
Massachusetts and the third largest in New England with combined
assets of 3.1 billion dlrs. Boston Five chairman Robert J. Spiller
said "There is a natural fit between both banks. We consider this to
be a merger of equals." Spiller will become Chairman of Boston Five
Bancorp and Neworld president James M. Oates will be president and
chief executive officer. Boston Five said its President, Peter J.
Blampied, will become vice chairman and chief operating officer of the
holding company. The board of the holding company will have an equal
number of directors from each institution. "Unlike many recent
combinations, this merger has no acquisition premium associated with
it," Blampied said. Boston Five has assetsof 1.9 billion dlrs and 35
officers. Neworld has assets of 1.2 billion dlrs and 24 officers in
Massachusetts. It also has a loan center in New Hampshire. Reuter 

GENCORP SAID AGREEMENT TO SELL RKO PICTURES TERMINATED




BANK OF NEW YORK REAFFIRMS TERMS FOR IRVING <V>
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
The Bank of New York Corp <BK> said it reaffirmed the terms of its
offer for Irving Bank Corp despite the drop in the Bank of New York's
share price to 30-1/8, a Bank of New York spokesman said. "The offer
still stands, we have not changed our offer," a Bank of New York
spokesman said. Irving would not comment on how the drop in the market
affects its position on the bid or whether it would buy back any of
its own shares. Earlier this month, Irving rejected the bid as
inadequate and said it wanted to retain its independence. In late
September, Bank of New York offered 80 dlrs per share in cash for 47.4
pct of Irving. For the remaining 52.6 pct, it offered an exchange of
1.9 shares of its shares for one Irving share. At that time, the stock
purchase portion was worth close to 80 dlrs per share, but now that
portion is worth 53 dlrs per share for a net price of 68 dlrs, one
analyst said. According to the prospectus offer, shareholders may
tender for all cash or all shares on a first come, first serve basis.
Analysts were mixed about how the stock price drop would affect the
acquisition. "If it gets to the Irving shareholders, they would
approve it, but Irving hopes the offer won't go to the shareholders,"
said Mark Alpert, banking analyst with Bear Stearns Cos Inc. "And the
market is saying the deal won't go through," Alpert said. "The
transaction looks highly unlikely to be completed at present. If
Irving wouldn't go with the offer at 80 dlrs a share, then they won't
go at a lower price," another analyst said. The analyst also doubted
that Bank of New York could afford to retain its original offer.
However, industry sources were more uncertain about prospects for the
deal. "With Irving's price so low, Bank of New York's offer will look
good to Irving shareholders," said Michael Flores, a consultant at
Bank Earnings International, a consulting firm. The drop of Irving's
share to 44 dlrs per share, which is about a 26 dlr drop from the
beginning of last week, increases the chance that Bank of New York
will succeed, Flores said. Analysts said that the drop in bank stock
prices is likely to depress the level of mergers and acquisition in
the banking industry. "Bank takeovers are less likely because banks
can't use their own stock to make acquisitions because their share
price is too depressed," Alpert said. Since only banks can buy another
bank, the only other possible acquirors would be a foreign bank,
Alpert said. "In the market drop the stock of acquirors got clobbered
more than the acquirees," another analyst said. Reuter 

BROKER BOOSTS ZONDERVAN <ZOND> STAKE TO 7.1 PCT
    WASHINGTON, April 8 - 
An investor group headed by Minneapolis, Minn., broker Jeffrey Wendel
said it raised its stake in Zondervan Corp to 292,900 shares, or 7.1
pct of the total outstanding, from 238,900 shares, or 5.8 pct. In a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Wendel group
said it bought 54,000 Zondervan common shares between March 24 and
April 3 at prices ranging from 27.87 to 29.96 dlrs a share. The Wendel
group has acted in cooperation with another shareholder group headed
by London investor Christopher Moran, who sought unsuccessfully last
year to take over Zondervan. Reuter 

MAXWELL FILES SUIT TO STOP HARCOURT <HBJ>
    New York, June 1 - 
Publisher Robert Maxwell's British Printing and Communicaton Corp PLC
said it filed a lawsuit in U.S. district court against Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich Inc, its directors and advisers to stop, among other
things, payment of the special dividend Harcourt is paying as part of
its recapitalization. The suit, filed in Manhattan, also names First
Boston Corp <FBC> and seeks to void the issue by Harcourt of 40,000
shares of super voting preferred stock to First Boston Securities Corp
and the issue of convertible voting preferred stock with 4,700,000
votes in the Harcourt employee stock ownership plan. The preferred
shares to be issued to First Boston have 8,160,000 votes. The suit,
brought derivatively on behalf of Harcourt and individually in British
Printing's capacity as a substantial holder of Harcourt common shares
and 6-3/8 pct convertible debentures. The suit alleges Harcourt's
special dividend exceeds by more than one billion dlrs Harcout's
surplus available for dividends under New York law and contstitutes a
fraudulent conveyance. The lawsuit also alleges that Harcourt failed
to disclose that one consequence of the payment of the dividend, which
it terms illegal, will be that shareholders will be liable to repay
it. Harcourt last week said it would pay 40 dlrs per share to
stockholders as a special dividend. Harcourt also announced an
extensive recapitalization plan, which analysts said was aimed at
thwarting a takeover effort by British Printing. British Printing last
week withdrew its 44 dlr per share, or two billion dlr offer for
Harcourt because of the recapitalizaton plan. At the time, it said it
was reviewing its alternatives. British Printing said it filed the
suit after consultation with its advisers. Its lawsuit also alleges
that Harcourt failed to disclose the effect of the special dividend on
Harcourt 6-3/8 pct convertible debentures. British Printing alleges
the effect will be an enormous increase effective on the June eight
record date for the dividend in the number of Harcourt common shares
issuable upon conversion of the debentures. British Printing also
charged Harcourt is unlawfully coercing debenture holders to convert
denbentures before the record date because Harcourt may not have
enough authorized common shares to honor conversion after the date.
British Printing holds 460,600 shares and 5.6 mln dlrs worth of
debentures. The suit also alleges that management, the board of
directors, and First Boston engaged in an illegal scheme of
entrenchment through a combination of selling to First Boston
Securities Corp the super voting preferred at a bargain price, the
grant to the company employee stock plan of convertible voting
preferred, the six mln share open market repurchase program and the
manner in which its financing has been structured. Reuter 

ATCOR<ATCO.O> SEEKS BUYERS FOR CONSUMER BUSINESS
    CHICAGO, June 1 - 
Atcor Inc said that Roth-American Inc, which had signed a letter of
intent on May 1 to acquire its Turco and Charmglow operations of its
consumer products segment, has decided against buying Charmglow. While
Roth-American said it is still interested in acquiring Turco, Atcor
said it is now reviewing its options with other potential buyers who
have expressed interest in its consumer products businesses. Reuter 

KENTUCKY CENTRAL <KENCA.O> UNIT SELLS STATIONS
    LEXINGTON, Ken., April 17 - 
Kentucky Central Life Insurance Co said its Bluegrass Broadcasting Co
Inc subsidiary has agreed to sell two Orlando, Fla., radio stations to
TK Communications Inc for 13.5 mln dlrs, subject to FCC approval.
Reuter 

TALKING POINT/BURLINGTON INDUSTRIES <BUR>
    New York, April 8 - 
The largest U.S. textile maker focused on its own business as its
competitors found merger partners, but now Burlington Industries Inc
may have restructured itself into an attractive takeover candidate,
analysts said. The takeover spotlight fell today on Burlington, which
rose 4-7/8 to 52-7/8 on speculation that investor Asher Edelman and
Dominion Textiles Inc of Canada bought an almost five pct stake. A
published report said Edelman and Dominion jointly acquired a stake in
Burlington and were weighing a takeover offer. Edelman would not
comment, and a spokesman for Montreal-based Dominion called the report
just "rumors." Burlington said it did not know if the report was true.
Wall Street professionals said they were not convinced of the story or
that Edelman and Dominion would be the victors if Burlington actually
came into play. Arbitragers said past comments from Dominion, however,
added credence to the speculation. Dominion has said that it was
looking for a takeover in the U.S. Last year, Dominion unsuccessfully
bid for Avondale Mills and has maintained a 120 mln dlr line of credit
to be used for a U.S. acquisition. A Dominion spokesman said Canada's
largest textile producer has been negotiating with "many" U.S. textile
companies, but would not say whether Burlington was among them. "There
have been acquisitions in this area. It's not unusual that someone
could be looking at Burlington after the housecleaning they've done,"
said Eileen Gormley of Thomson McKinnon. Burlington sold its domestic
operations, which made sheets and other linens, to J.P. Stevens and Co
Inc for 110 mln dlrs last year. It also has reorganized management,
and focused its operations on businesses that would be less affected
by foreign competition, Gormley said. "They've pulled back so as not
to be a commodity marketer," said Gormley. She said in moving more
heavily into industrial fabrics, Burlington bought C.H. Masland, which
supplies carpets and other fabric to the auto industry. "In the past,
they just spent and never realized the return on the outlays they did
make," she said. "You look at their record over the year, and I think
they're poised to be more profitable than they had been in the past,"
Gormley said. She estimated 1987 earnings of 2.50 dlrs per share, up
from 2.01 dlrs per share. Some analysts today recommended clients not
buy Burlington at its current levels. Edward Johnson of Johnson
Redbook said he recommends selling. He said he believes the stock is
worth only about 50 dlrs on a takeover basis and about 46 dlrs on an
earnings basis. Some arbitragers, however, said takeover values have
been placed on the company of 60 to 65 dlrs per share. "After Asher's
(Edelman) recent history, a lot of people don't find him very credible
anymore," said one arbitrager. Another, however, said Edelman succeeds
in forcing managements to take steps to enhance shareholder values
even if he doesn't win the target company. Edelman was unsuccessful
last year in offers for Lucky Stores Inc and Fruehauf Corp. He did
succeed in buying Ponderosa Inc. The stocks of other textile makers
rose along with Burlington. J.P. Stevens <STN> climbed 5/8 to 44-7/8,
and Fieldcrest Cannon Inc <FLD>, the result of a merger of Fieldcrest
and Cannon, rose 1-1/8 to 39-3/4. West Point-Pepperell Inc <WPM> rose
1-7/8 to 67-1/8. Reuter 

TRUMP AND INTERSTATE IN TALKS FOR ALEXANDERS
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
Donald Trump and Interstate Properties said they were holding
preliminary discussions regarding a possible joint acquisition of
Alexanders Inc at 47 dlrs per share. The possible acquisition is
subject to any applicable real estate gains and transfer taxes, the
joint statement said. Trump and Interstate, which presently own about
40 pct of Alexander's common stock, said they intend to keep the
company as a retailer if they succed in their acquisition. There can
be no assurances that the parties will reach any agreement regarding
an acquisition or what price might be offered, the statement said.
Reuter 

CAROLCO <CRC> MAY BID FOR LIEBERMAN <LMAN.O>
    MINNEAPOLIS, June 2 - 
Lieberman Enterprises Inc said Carolco Pictures Inc is negotiating for
the acquisition of the 50 pct of Lieberman shares held by the families
of chairman David Lieberman and president Harold Okinow at 20.50 dlrs
each, and if the deal were concluded, public shareholders would be
offered the same price for their shares. Lieberman said the Carolco
bid to its public shareholders would be in cash or shareholders could
be offered securities as an alternative. The offer would occur within
about 90 days after the closing of the sale of the initial 50 pct
stake, the company said. The company said a final agreement has not
yet been reached on the first transaction, but negotiations are
expected to be concluded in early June. Present management is expected
to continue to operate Lieberman, the company said. Lieberman
distributes prerecorded music, video movies and other products. Reuter


ARCO <ARC> SPIN-OFF SEEN AT 500 MLN DLRS
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Atlantic Richfield Co, considering a spin-off of a 20 pct interest in
its chemical operations, could gain about 500 mln dlrs from the deal,
industry analysts estimated. Yesterday ARCO's stock jumped as much as
five points on rumors it was spinning off the chemical operations.
Based on about 183 mln outstanding shares, the market in its frenzy
was valuing the spin-off at about 900 mln dlrs, analysts said.
Atlantic Richfield, aware of the rumors, issued a statement around
mid-day that it was considering a sale of only 20 pct of the unit,
leading investors to take profits. After the announcement, the
company's stock retreated, closing at 93-7/8, up 1-3/8. Today it was
off 1/4. "It was a smaller deal than expected and somewhat
disappointing," said analyst George Baker at Smith Barney. He said
rumors of the spin-off had been around "for a couple of days." Baker
said the unit was very profitable but it wasn't getting the type of
exposure Atlantic Richfield sought, and its value was not reflected in
the company's stock price. Industry analyst Richard Pzena of Sanford
C. Bernstein said the unit had operating earnings of 132 mln dlrs last
year and he expected it to earn about 175 mln dlrs this year. Based on
a multiple of 17 times earnings--which Pzena says chemical companies
now sell for--the entire unit is worth about three billion dlrs,
putting the 20 pct interest at around 500 to 600 mln dlrs. Pzena said
he thought the company was selling the stake because chemical margins
had peaked, and he speculated the company would use the proceeds to
pay down debt. But he added the possibility remained the deal would
fall through. Yesterday, ARCO said the proposal had not yet been
presented to its board. The chemical unit last year had revenues of
1.9 billion dlrs. Reuter 

POLYCAST <PTCC> REDUCES SPARTECH <SPTN> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
Polycast Technology Corp told the Securities and Exchange Commission
it sold off 119,800 of its Spartech Corp common shares, reducing its
stake in Spartech to 30,000 shares or 1.2 pct of the total
outstanding. Polycast said it made the sales April 6-8 in the over-
the-counter market. It gave no reason for the sales. Reuter 

HONG KONG FIRM UPS WRATHER <WCO> STAKE TO 28 PCT
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd, a Hong Kong investment firm, said it
raised its stake in Wrather Corp to 2,025,850 shares, or 28.1 pct of
the total outstanding common stock, from 1,808,700 shares, or 25.1
pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Industrial Equity, which is principally owned by Brierley Investments
Ltd, a publicly held New Zealand firm, said it bought 217,150 Wrather
common shares on May 28 and 29 at 20.00 dlrs a share, or 4.3 mln dlrs
total. Reuter 

GENCORP <GY> SAYS RKO UNIT SALE TERMINATED
    AKRON, Ohio, June 18 - 
GenCorp said its agreement to sell its RKO Pictures subsidiary to a
management group has been terminated because the group could not raise
the necessary financing. The company said it will again seek buyers
for the unit and its library of over 750 films. Reuter 

REXHAM <RXH> REPURCHASES STAKE FROM NORTEK <NTK>
    CHARLOTTE, N.C., April 9 - 
Rexham Corp said it has repurchased 381,050 of its shares or 9.1 pct
from Nortek Inc for 42 dlrs each, and Nortek has withdrawn its
proposal to acquire Rexham for 43 dlrs per share. Rexham said Nortek
has also agreed not to buy Rexham shares or take other actions under a
10-year standstill agreement. The Rexham board had rejected the Nortek
bid as inadequate. The company also said its board has authorized the
repurchase in the open market or privately from time to time of up to
an additional five pct of its own shares and the establishment of an
Employee Stock Ownership Plan. The plan is expected to purchase from
Rexham a new convertible preferred stock with 11.5 pct of Rexham's
voting power with proceeds of a pension plan overfunding and
borrowings. Reuter 

BSN <BSN> BUYS STAKE IN MACGREGOR <MGS>
    DALLAS, June 29 - 
BSN Corp said it holds less than five pct of MacGregor Sporting Goods.
The company said the stock was acquired through recent open market
purchases and the stake does not require specific disclosure. Reuter 

BECOR WESTERN <BCW> TALKS TO FOURTH BIDDER
    SOUTH MILWAUKEE, Wis., June 18 - 
Becor Western Inc said it is talking with a possible fourth bidder for
the company. The company also said Lynch Corp <LGL> has renewed its
offer for Becor which was withdrawn last week. Talks with the possible
bidder are expected to be concluded shortly, Becor said, adding its
board will evaluate all then existing offers at that time. In the
meantime, the company said, it plans today to adjourn further its
meeting of stockholders to June 30. That meeting was called to act on
a merger agreement calling for a buyout by BCW Acquisitions Inc. The
third identified Becor suitor is <Davis Mining and Manufacturing Inc>.
In Fairfield, N.J., Lynch said its latest proposal calls Lynch to own
75 pct of Becor's stock and Becor holders to retain the other 25 pct.
Peviously, Lynch would have held about 25 pct, with Becor holders
receiving 25 pct and Becor management about half. Lynch said the
proposal was changed because it believes Becor's management "needs
more guidance in terms of financial structuring. Reuter 

CARSON PIRIE <CRN> TO START PROXY MAILING
    CHICAGO, Oct 19 - 
Carson Pirie Scott and Co said it plans to start mailing proxy
materials to stockholders in connection to a November 16 special
meeting at which holders will be asked to consider a previously
announced agreement with Greyhound Corp <G>. Under the agreement,
Greyhound will acquire, in a merger, three of the company's
foodservice operations - Dobbs International Services, Dobbs Houses
and Carson international. If the transaction is approved, Carsons said
its stockholders will receive 30 dlrs cash and one share of common in
the new Carson Pirie Scott and Co for each share held. Reuter 

SUPERMARKETS GENERAL <SGL> SELLS 11 DRUG STORES
    CARTERET, N.J., Oct 19 - 
Supermarkets General Corp said it agreed to sell 11 super drug stores
to <F and M Distributors>. The nine existing and two unopened stores
are located in Maryland, Virginia and upstate New York and are
operated under the Pathmark Super Drug trade name, the company said.
Terms of the transaction were not disclosed. The nine existing stores
generated approximately 34.8 mln dlrs of Supermarkets General's total
sales of 2.9 billion during the six-month period ended Aug One, 1987.
F and M Distributors operates 42 discount drug stores in Michigan,
Ohio, Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin. Reuter 

MCDONNELL DOUGLAS <MD> BUYS COMPUTER FIRM
    ST. LOUIS, April 9 - 
McDonnell Douglas Corp said it acquired Frampton Computer Services
Ltd, a British software company that is also known as Isis. Terms of
the acquisition were not disclosed. Based in Bristol, England, Isis
employs 65 workers and has annual revenues of about five mln dlrs,
McDonnell Douglas said. The company added that Isis will operate as
part of McDonnell Douglas Information Systems International. Reuter 

CRAZY EDDIE <CRZY.O> AMENDS SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS
    EDISON, N.J., Oct 20 - 
Crazy Eddie Inc said its board of directors amended the company's
shareholder rights plan in moves it said were designed to preserve
stockholder protection and provide flexibility to the plan. Yesterday,
Crazy Eddie agreed not to oppose a slate of candidates to its board
proposed by the Committee to Restore Stockholder Value, a shareholder
group led by the <Oppenheimer-Palmieri Fund L.P.> and Entertainment
Marketing Inc <EM>, that has been seeking to oust current management.
Crazy Eddie said the new amendments limit future amendments to the
plan, modify the definition of "continuing directors" and permit
amendment or termination of the plan with the consent of the company's
shareholders if there are no continuing directors in office or the
approval of at least three such directors cannot be obtained. The
company also said it approved a certificate of designation with
respect to its 4.5 mln shares of authorized, but previously
undesignated and unissued shares of preferred stock and adopted an
employee stock ownership plan. Crazy Eddie also that it requested that
the shareholder group make a commitment not to take the company
private until Crazy Eddie has had a chance to recover from current
financial difficulties, a committment that the group rejected. Crazy
Eddie said it will hold its annual shareholders meeting on November 6.
Reuter 

RAYCOMM TRANSWORLD <RACM.O> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    FREEHOLD, N.J., June 2 - 
Raycomm Transworld Industries Inc said it has agreed in principle
subject to board approvals to acquire Spiridellis Consulting Group
Inc, a privately-held computer services consulting firm, for a number
of common shares to be determined based on pretax earnings of
Spiridellis over a five-year period. The company said it will
gaurantee that almost all of the issued shares will attain price
levels ranging from five to nine dlrs each for two years after their
issuance. It said Spiridellis had revenues of 3,500,000 dlrs in
calendar 1986. Reuter 

JWT GROUP <JWT> SUES WPP GROUP PLC
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
JWT Group Inc said it filed a suit against <WPP Group Plc> to enjoin
the company from continuing its tender offer. The company said it
charged that former JWT Group unit executive John Peters has breached
his fiduciary duty by disclosing confidential information about the
company and its clients. The company said the suit, filed in New York
State Supreme Court, seeks to halt the "ongoing misuse and
misappropriation of highly confidential and proprietary information
concerning JWT and its clients. The defendants in the suit are WPP
Group and its units and Peters, who until January 29 was a director of
J. Walter Thompson Co, JWT Group's main subsidiary and its president
and chief operating officer. JWT said it asked the court to enjoin the
defendants from acquiring any further JWT stock, make them return all
confidential and proprietary information and to disgorge all profits
or other gains. The company said it also asked the court to award JWT
unspecified damages. Reuter 

POREX <PORX.O> TO MERGE WITH MEDCO <MCCS.O>
    FAIRLAWN, N.J., June 1 - 
Porex Technologies Corp said it has agreed to merge with its partly-
owned subsidiary Medco Containment Services Inc in a deal worth about
380 mln dlrs in cash and common stock to Porex shareholders. The
company said under the agreement, Prex holders would receive new Medco
shares representing a pro rata share of the 9,159,552 Medco shares now
owned by Porex plus a pro rata shares of the cash value of other porex
assets, which is estimated at 60 mln dlrs subject to adjustment. Medco
now has 16.9 mln shares outstanding. While exact terms may not be
determined until the transaction becomes effective, Porex said each
Porex share is expected to be exchanged for 0.82 Medco share and 5.38
dlrs in cash, subject to approval by sharehoilders of both companies.
As part of the deal, Medco will split its stock five for two. The
company said the merger will be accounted for as a corporate
reorganization and be recorded at historical book values. Reuter 

JOE FRANKLIN AND ASSETS DEVELOPMENT TO MERGE
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
Privately-held Joe Franklin Productions Inc said it entered into a
preliminary agreement to merge with Assets Development Corp, a public
company. Terms were not disclosed. The companies said they expected
the merged group to qualify for listing on NASDAQ. Reuter 

ALLWASTE <ALWS.O> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    HOUSTON, Oct 19 - 
Allwaste Inc said it has agreed in principle to acquire a privately-
held firm that performs interior cleaning services for tank-trailers
for 1,300,000 common shares. It said the firm, which it did not name,
earned about 1,500,000 dlrs pretax for the first nine mons of 1987.
The company said closing is expected by October 31. Reuter 

ICN <ICN> BUYS STAKE FROM EASTMAN KODAK <EK>
    COSTA MESA, Calif., June 29 - 
ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc said it purchased the remaining 225,000 shares
of Viratek Inc <VIRA.O> owned by Eastman Kodak Co owned as part of a
previously announced program. The company said it paid Kodak 10.50
dlrs a share or 2.4 mln dlrs. As previously announced, ICN also said
it authorized the additional purchase of up to 1.5 mln shares of
Viratek common. To date, ICN said it bought a total of about 1.2 mln
shares of Viratek, including the shares purchased from Kodak. The
company said it now owns 56 pct of Viratek as a result of these
transactions. Reuter 

JONES AND VINING <JNSV.O> STARTS BID FOR SHARES
    BRAINTREE, Mass., June 2 - 
Jones and Vining Inc said it has started a tender offer for all of its
own shares at five dlrs per share. The company said it will hold a
special meeting on July 10 for a vote on approval of a merger at the
tender price. It said the price to be paid in the tender and merger
could be reduced by any fees and expenses the court may award to
counsel for the plaintiffs in the class action suit brought against it
in Delaware Chancery Court by Ronda Inc. The plaintfiffs' counsel are
seeking fees of up to 10 cts per share, Jones and Vining said. The
company said the court has scheduled a hearing on the proposed
settlement of the suit for July Eight. The company said the start of
the tender offer and the calling of the special meeting are conditions
of the settlement, and completion of the tender and merger are
conditioned on final approval of the settlement. Reuter 

GROUP LIFTS STAKE IN SCANDINAVIA FUND <SCF>
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
A foreign investment group told the Securities and Exchange Commission
it raised its stake in Scandinavia Fund Inc to 3,040,600 shares, or
46.6 pct of the total outstanding, from 2,829,300 shares, or 43.2 pct.
The group, which includes Ingemar Rydin Industritillbehor AB, a
Swedish firm, VBI Corp, a British West Indies investment firm, and
Norwegian investor Erik Vik, said it bought 211,300 Scandinavia common
shares since April 30 at prices ranging from 10.000 to 10.625 dlrs a
share. Reuter 

<PLUM HOLDING INC> STARTS HOILLY SUGAR <HLY> BID
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
Plum Holding Inc said it has started its previously-announced offer to
purchase 664,400 common shares of Holly Sugar Corp at 95 dlrs each. In
a newspaper advertisement, the firm said the offer, proration period
and withdrawal rights expire November 17 unless extended. The offer,
which has been approved by the Holly board and is to be followed by a
merger in which remaining shares are to be exchanged for cumulative
redeemable exchangeable preferred stock, is conditioned on receipt of
at least 664,400 shares, which would give Plum a two thirds interest,
and the receipt of financing. Reuter 

DOMINION TEXTILE CALLS REPORT OF BID FOR BURLINGTON RUMOR




IBC'S INTERSTATE BAKERIES<IBC>BID OVERSUBSCRIBED
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
IBC Acquisition Corp said it received about 8,857,807 Interstate
Bakeries Corp shares in response to its tender offer for up to
8,053,181 shares that expired October 16, and it will purchase about
90.9 pct of the shares tendered. It said a final proration factor
should be announced and payment for shares start October 26. IBC is
made up of Interstate management, First Boston Inc <FBC> and George K.
Braun and Co. Reuter 

ARRAYS <ARAY> COMPLETES MERGER
    VAN NUYS, Calif., April 13 - 
Arrays Inc said it completed its merger with Haba Systems Inc. Terms
of the merger called for each share of Arrays to be exchange for a
share of Haba in a transaction valued at 4.1 mln dlrs, the company
said. Both companies produce and market microcomputer software. Reuter


DIGITAL <DCAI.O> TO ACQUIRE FOX <FOXT.O> UNIT
    ALPHARETTA, Ga., June 29 - 
Digital Communications Associates Inc <DCAI.O> said it has entered
into an agreement to acquire substantially all the assets of Fox
Technology Inc's Fox Research Inc subsidiary. The company said it will
assume about 10 mln dlrs of Fox liabilities with a provision for a
further 6.5 mln dlrs based on the future financial performance of Fox
during the one year period following the closing of the deal. It said
the acquisition is subject to approval by Fox shareholders and is
expected to close in mid August. Reuter 

REED SAYS IT HAS NO COMMENT ON HARCOURT RUMOURS
    LONDON, June 19 - 
Reed International Plc <REED.L> said it had no comment to make on U.K.
stock market rumors that Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc <HBJ> may make
a bid for the company in order to escape unwelcome offers from Robert
Maxwell's British Printing and Communication Corp <BPCL.L>. A
spokeswoman for Reed said earlier analysts forecasts that a bid for
Reed will have to be about 700 mln stg were totally unrealistic,
adding that its current market is about 2.7 billion stg. Reuter 

TOTAL CAPITAL ACQUIRES DUNHILL COMPACT
    DENVER, Oct 20 - 
<Total Capital Corp> said it acquired <Dunhill Compact Classics Inc>
for an unspecified amount of stock. The surviving company will be
controlled by Dunhill's principals, Total Capital said. Dunhill makes
compact discs. Reuter 

GROUP LIFTS STAKE IN SUAVE SHOE<SWV> TO 11.5 PCT
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
A shareholder group including Entregrowth Interational Ltd, of
Auckland, New Zealand, said it lifted its stake in Suave Shoe Corp
common stock to 319,600 shares, or 11.5 pct of the total outstanding,
from a previous figure of approximately 238,400 shares, or 8.6 pct. In
a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said
it bought 81,200 Suave Shoe common shares in open market transactions
between October 1 and 19 at 8.34 dlrs to 10.07 dlrs a share. No reason
was given for the purchases. Reuter 

LOMAS <LNK> SHAREHOLDERS APPROVE ACQUISITION
    DALLAS, June 29 - 
Lomas and Nettleton Financial Corp said its shareholders approved at a
special meeting the company's acquisition of Equitable Life Leasing
Corp for 263.3 mln dlrs. Equitable Life Leasing Corp is a subsidiary
of Equitable Investment Corp, which is owned by the Equitable Life
Assurance Co of U.S. Lomas said the acquistion price will consist of
one mln in cash, 1.5 mln shares of the company's common stock, 71,000
shares of a new series C preferred stock, and 8.944 mln dlrs principal
amount of nine pct senior notes due 1994. The company added that the
acquisition will close June 30. Reuter 

COMPUTER MEMORIES <CMIN.O> TO DELAY MERGER
    CHATSWORTH, Calif., Oct 20 - 
Computer Memories Inc said its board has decided to take additional
time to evaluate the impact of litigation on the proposed acquisition
of <Hemdale Film Corp>. Computer Memories said it plans to adjourn its
annual shareholders meeting, scheduled for October 23, after it is
convened. One purpose of the meeting is to consider the transaction,
the company explained. Computer Memories said Hemdale agrees with this
course of action. Reuter 

CARTER HAWLEY <CHH> SETS RECORD DATE FOR VOTE
    LOS ANGELES, June 18 - 
Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc said it has set June 29 as the record
date for shareholders voting on the company's proposed restructuring
at its annual meeting. The company has yet to set a date for the
meeting, but has said it will be held before the end of August. Under
the proposal, Carter Hawley would split into a specialty store company
and a department store company. Shareholders would get 17-dlrs in cash
and a share in each of the two new companies for each existing common
share they hold. The restructuring was announced in December, after
Carter Hawley rejected a buy-out offer by Retail Partners. Reuter 

DATACARD <DATC.O> ADOPTS DIVIDEND RIGHTS PLAN
    MINNEAPOLIS, June 29 - 
DataCard Corp said it adopted a dividend rights plan in response to
Deluxe Check Printers Inc <DLX> having agreed to sell its 38 pct
interest in DataCard to National Computer Systems Inc <NLCS.O>.
DataCard declared a dividend distribution of one preferred stock
purchase right on each outstanding share its common stock. The
dividend is designed to deter National Computer or other potential
suitors from preventing DataCard from evaluating all alternatives to
maximize shareholder value, DataCard said. National Computer told
Reuters June 22 it could make a bid for DataCard. On June 25 DataCard
filed suit in Hennepin County District Court in Minnesota to block the
sale of the 38 pct stake of its stock to National Computer. In
announcing the rights plan, DataCard said it "is not designed to deter
takeovers that would be consistent with the objective of maximizing
stockholders value to all of DataCard's stockholders." The rights will
not become exercisable until 10 days after an announcement that a
person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 44 pct or more of
DataCard's common stock. Once exercisable, each right would entitle a
holder to buy 1/500th of a share of DataCard Series A junior
participation preferred Stock for 35 dlrs. Holders other than an
acquirer would be entitled to purchase, for six-months after the right
becomes exercisable, a number of shares of the new preferred stock
with a market value equal to twice the exercise price of the rights.
The rights dividend distribution is payable July 9 to shareholders of
record July 9. Reuter 

BASS GROUP CUTS NATIONAL DISTILLERS <DR> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
An investor group led by members of the Bass family of Fort Worth,
Texas, said it lowered its stake in National Distillers and Chemical
Corp to 1,159,400 shares, or 3.6 pct of the total common, from
1,727,200, or 5.3 pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Bass group said it sold 567,800 National Distillers
common shares between May 15 and 29 at prices ranging from 59.94 to
63.44 dlrs a share. As long as the group's stake is below five pct, it
is not required to disclose its further dealings in National
Distillers' common stock. Reuter 

LEADER DEVELOPMENT <LDCO.O> MERGER APPROVED
    COLUMBUS, Ohio, June 18 - 
Leader Development Corp said shareholders at the annual meeting
approved the acquisition of privately-held Clinton American Corp and
two related partnerships for 3,450,000 common shares, with the
transaction to be accounted for as a pooling of interests. The company
said Clinton president F. Daniel Ryan will become president of Leader.
Reuter 

WESBANCO <WSBC.O> ACQUIRING BANK OF SISSONVILLE
    WHEELING, W. Va., June 2 - 
Wesbanco Inc said its board executed a merger agreement with the <Bank
of Sissonville>. When the merger is completed, each of the 50,000
shares of the Bank of Sissonville common stock outstanding will be
converted into 2.75 shares of Wesbanco common stock, the company said.
The Bank of Sissonville has total assets of 25.5 mln dlrs as of Dec
31, 1986, the company said. Reuter 

NATIONAL BEVERAGE TO ACQUIRE FAYGO BEVERAGES
    FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., April 9 - 
<National Beverage Corp> said it agreed to acquire <Faygo Beverages
Inc> for an undisclosed amount of cash. Faygo has revenues in excess
of of 100 mln dlrs, National Beverage said. Reuter 

CORBY DISTILLERIES LTD TO BUY HEUBLEIN'S MCGINNESS DISTILLERS FOR 45 MLN CANADIAN DLRS




NEW GENERATION PRODUCTS MAKES ACQUISITION
    SALT LAKE CITY, Utah, June 29 - 
<New Generation Products Inc> said it has acquired a 20 pct ownership
in <Personal Protection Technolgies Inc>. New Generation said Personal
Protection is developing a group of personal care products, which are
effective in killing a variety of viruses and bacteria on contact, for
U.S. and export markets. Reuter 

DUFFOUR IGON GIVES BACKING TO AGA TAKEOVER BID
    PARIS, June 2 - 
French industrial gas group <Duffour et Igon> has decided to back the
takeover bid by Swedish industrial gases group Aga AB <AGA.ST>, ending
a lengthy battle between rival bidders from France, Spain and West
Germany, Duffour et Igon Chairman Jean Igon said. The board agreed
late last night to back the Aga bid and advise its shareholders to
accept the Swedish group's latest offer of 4,410 francs per share, he
told Reuters. The other main bidders were Union Carbide Corp's <UK.>
French subsidiary <Union Carbide France> and West Germany's Linde AG
<LING.F>. Aga topped rival bids for the gases distribution group in
May by raising its offer to 4,410 francs from 4,000 francs. This was
accepted by Spain's <Carburos Metalicos SA> which sold Aga six pct of
Duffour et Igon's stock and the right of first refusal on the
remaining nine pct of stock it holds. It also won over the French
Midi-Pyrenees development authority which agreed to sell Aga its 20
pct stake in Duffour et Igon. Under Aga's offer, shareholders can
either accept a cash bid or exchange one share in Duffour et Igon for
one bond of a nominal value of 4,410 francs with a 10 pct coupon issue
by Aga France SA. The bond issue is guaranteed by the parent Aga AB.
The takeover battle for the Toulouse-based company, which controls
eight pct of the French industrial gas distribution market, began on
April 2 with an offer of 2,100 francs per share from Union Carbide
France <UK>. Aga's offer, which puts a price of 587 mln francs on the
company, closes on June 24 and the results will be announced on July
21. Duffour et Igon shares were quoted yesterday at 4,410 francs, with
no buyers, after a series of suspensions during the takeover tussle.
They traded at 856 francs on January 9 before the first suspension.
REUTER 

CLEVITE INDUSTRIES SAYS J.P. INDUSTRIES OFFERED 13.50
DLRS A SHARE TO BUY COMPANY




SOUTHMARK <SM> TO PURCHASE <NATIONAL SELF>
    WEST PALM BEACH, Fla., Oct 20 - 
National Self Storage said has sold nine storage facilities to
Southmark Corp for 37.1 mln dlrs. National Self, a developer of
storage space for business records, said the purchase includes nine
storage facilties. National Self also said it and Southmark plan a
two-year 100 facility expansion program in South Florida and across
the country. Reuter 

HENLEY <HENG.O> ENDS TALKS WITH SANTE FE
    LA JOLLA, Calif., Oct 19 - 
Henley Group Inc said it ended talks with Sante Fe Southern Pacific
Corp concerning the possible acquisition of Sante Fe's Southern
Pacific Transportation Co subsidiary. The company also said it is
reviewing its investment in Santa Fe Southern Pacific in light of
Sante Fe's announcement that it recieved several bids ranging from 750
mln dlrs to more than one billion dlrs for its Southern Pafific
Transportation subsidiary. Henley said it held discussions with Sante
Fe concerning the acquisition by Henley of Bankers Leasing and
Financial Corp and certain Sante Fe transportation and real estate
assets. Henley said it began talks with Sante Fe after it announced
its restructuring program in August 1987. As previously disclosed,
Henley made necessary filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust
Improvement Acts to permit Henley to increase its investment in Sante
Fe to 24.9 pct of the outstanding common stock from 5.03 pct. Henley
said that depending on prevailing conditions, including price and
availability of Sante Fe stock, substantial developments affecting
Sante Fe, other investment and business opportunities available to
Henley, Henley may additional Sante Fe shares, or sell all or part of
its investment in Sante Fe. Reuter 

WILLIAMS DETAILS ACCEPTANCES OF NORCROS OFFER
    LONDON, April 13 - 
<Williams Holdings Plc> said that it had received acceptances for its
offer for Norcros Plc <NCRO.L> from the holders of 233,448 Norcros
ordinary shares, or 0.18 pct, and 180,240 preference shares, or 8.19
pct. Before the 568 mln stg contested bid was launched last month,
Williams held 850,000 ordinary shares, or 0.67 pct and since then it
had acquired options to buy a further 1.99 mln or 1.58 pct. The offer
has been extended to April 15. Norcros shares eased 26p to 410p on the
announcement while Williams fell to 767p from 785p. REUTER 

BALL CORP <BLL> COMPLETES ACQUISITION OF VERAC
    MUNCIE, Ind., June 2 - 
Ball Corp said it completed the acquisition of privately held Verac
Inc. Terms were not disclosed. The company said the San Diego-based
defense systems and software development company had sales of about 23
mln dlrs in 1986 and will operate as part of Ball's technical products
group. Reuter 

CSR DECLARES PIONEER SUGAR BID UNCONDITIONAL
    SYDNEY, June 18 - 
CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> said it had declared unconditional its takeover bid
for <Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd> following Pioneer's recommendation that
shareholders accept. This meant Pioneer shareholders would be paid for
all shares tendered within 14 days, CSR said in a statement. CSR's
statement follows Industrial Equity Ltd's <INEA.S> disclosure
yesterday that it had built up a 9.8 pct stake in Pioneer at 2.54 dlrs
a share, topping CSR's cash bid of 2.50. CSR is also offering one
share, currently worth 4.04 dlrs, plus 1.20 cash, for every two
Pioneer shares, which values Pioneer at 2.62 per share. It holds about
33 pct of Pioneer. REUTER 

SOSNOFF REDUCES CAESARS WORLD <CAW> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
New York investor Martin Sosnoff said he reduced his stake in Caesars
World Inc common stock to 3,878,700 shares, or 16 pct of the company's
common stock outstanding, from about 17.4 pct. Sosnoff, who tried
unsuccessfully to acquire Caesars World earlier this year, said in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that he sold
338,975 Caesars World shares on October 15 and 16 at 22.50 dlrs to
25.25 dlrs a share. Sosnoff said he holds his Caesars World stock
"primarily for investment purposes". He also said he reserves the
right to alter his intentions at any time. Reuter 

PEERLESS MANUFACTURING <PMFG.O> SELLS UNIT
    DALLAS, June 1 - 
Peerless Manufacturing Co said it has sold its Industrial Sensors and
Instruments Division and Panhandle Equipment Co subsidiaries for a
total of 635,000 dlrs in cash. It said the transaction will result in
a loss of about 605,000 dlrs or 50 cts per share, which it will take
in the fourth quarter ending June 30. Peerless said due to the sale it
will probably have a loss for the year. It said it sold the units, to
buyers it did not name, due to increasing losses caused by the
depressed petroleum equipment market. Peerless earned 576,000 dlrs or
63 cts per share in fiscal 1986. It said the units being sold lost 28
cts per share in the first nine months of fiscal 1987 and 12 cts in
all of fiscal 1986. Reuter 

CYCLOPS <CYL> MERGER APPROVED
    PITTSBURGH, June 29 - 
Cyclops Corp said shareholders approved a previously announced merger
of the company with a subsidiary of dixons Group PLC. It said Dixons
held about 83 pct of Cyclops stock following a tender offer and other
purchases earlier in the year. With the completion of the transaction,
Dixons will proceed to pay 95 dlrs a share to the remaining Cyclops
shareholders. Reuter 

CO-OPERATIVE <COBK.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    ACTON, Mass., June 1 - 
Co-operative Bancorp said it completed the acquisition of all the
issued and outstanding stock of the Quincy Co-operative Bank <QBCK.O>.
Under the agreement, Quincy stockholders will receive 30 dlrs cash for
each share owned of the Quincy Co-operative Bank, for a total
transaction of approximately 50 mln dlrs, Co-operative said. Reuter 

NEWMONT <NEM> STAKE IN DU PONT <DD> DECLINES
     NEW YORK, april 13 - 
Newmont Mining Corp held 5,250,376 Du Pont Co shares, or about 2.2 pct
of those outstanding, at the end of 1986, down from the 5,970,141
shares, or 2.5 pct of those outstanding, it held a year earlier,
Newmont's annual report said. --Corrects March 30 item to show
holdings decreased. Reuter 

STIFEL FINANCIAL <SF> RECEIVES MERGER PROPOSAL
    ST LOUIS, Mo., June 19 - 
Stifel Financial Corp said it received an unsolicited merger proposal
from privately held Laidlaw Adams and Peck Inc for 15 dlrs a share in
cash for all its outstanding shares. The proposal, which expires July
1, values Stifel at about 54 mln dlrs. Stifel has about 3.6 mln shares
outstanding. The company said its management and board of directors
will consider the proposal but have not set a date to meet. It said
the proposal is currently being studied by Goldman Sachs and Co and
legal counsel. It said conditions of the proposal include obtaining
necessary financing, satisfactory completion of a due diligence
investigation by Laidlaw, and execution of employment contracts with
key employees to be designated by Laidlaw. Reuter 

ELDERS HAPPY TO LEAVE CARLING SHARES OUTSTANDING
    TORONTO, June 2 - 
Elders IXL Ltd <ELXA.S> says it is happy to leave preferences shares
of brewer Carling O'Keefe Ltd outstanding after an undisclosed bidder
made an offer to acquire all of Carling's outstanding preferred stock.
Elders, which owns 100 pct of Carling's outstanding common shares,
previously proposed to redeem the 433,745 Carling series A preferred
shares at 33.50 Canadian dlrs each and redeem the 386,662 series B
preferreds at 40 dlrs a share. The series A and B preferred shares
carry no vote while dividends are paid. Elders says neither it nor
Carling knows the identity of the bidder for Carling's preferred
shares. On May 29, the bidder offered to acquire the Carling preferred
for 36 dlrs for each series A and 40.50 dlrs for each series B share.
Elders said leaving the Carling preferred shares outstanding will not
affect ongoing plans of the company. Series B preferred shareholders
had previously rejected Carling's proposal to redeem the shares and a
series A preferred shareholders meeting was adjourned to June 12.
Reuter 

(CLARK COPY) BUYS NORWEGIAN FIRM
    ELK GROVE VILLAGE, Ill., June 1 - 
Clark Copy International Corp said it bought a Norwegian drafting
machines company for three mln U.S. dlrs. Clark Copy said its
majority-owned Norwegian subsidiary, Interactive Computer Aids Co of
Norway, purchased Kongsberg Drafting Systems, a division of Norwegian
state-owned Kongsberg Vappenfabrikk. Kongsberg Drafting's annual
worldwide sales are about 15 mln dlrs, Clark Copy said. Reuter 

GROUP UPS STAKE IN TANDY BRANDS <TAB> TO 6.9 PCT
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
A group of companies including Chicago-based Coronet Insurance Co and
Sunstates Corp, a Jacksonville., Fla., real estate firm, said it
raised its stake in Tandy Brands Inc to 175,900 shares, or 6.9 pct of
the total. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the group said it bought 43,600 Tandy common shares between May 21 and
June 9 for 633,333 dlrs in addition to the 132,300 shares, or 5.2 pct,
it had held previously. Reuter 

<FOURTH NATIONAL CORP> STAKE ACQUIRED
    TULSA, Okla., April 13 - 
Fourth National Corp said an investor group led by management has
acquired a 73 pct stake in the company from Interfirst Corp <IFC>, a
Dallas bank holding firm. A Fourth National spokesman said the deal
was for cash but would not disclose the amount. Fourth National, a
bank holding company with about 500 mln dlrs in assets, said in a
statement that it will continue to operate its four subsidiaries and
retain its employees. Reuter 

BELL GROUP CONFIRMS STANDARD CHARTERED STAKE
    PERTH, April 8 - 
The Bell Group Ltd <BLLA.S> said it now holds 14.9 pct of the issued
capital of Standard Chartered Plc <STCH.L> after acquiring further
shares. The one-sentence statement from Bell's headquarters confirmed
what its brokers Warburg Securities told Reuters in London yesterday.
Bell previously held 10 pct of Standard. Bell chairman Robert Holmes a
Court, who is also a director of Standard, was not available for
comment on his company's intentions in boosting its holding and other
company officials contacted here by Reuters declined to comment.
REUTER 

CORONA <ICR.TO> FAVORS ROYEX <RGM.TO> OFFER
    TORONTO, April 13 - 
International Corona Resources Ltd said its board of directors
believes that terms of Royex Gold Mining Corp's previously announced
offer are fair and reasonable, but it decided it will make no
recommendation on the offer to its shareholders. Royex on March 31
offered to buy four mln Corona shares. For each Corona share it
offered four dlrs cash, one series B share of Royex, one series C
share of Royex and one share purchase warrant. It also bid for all
Corona warrants expiring Aug 31, 1987. Reuter 

CORBY DISTILLERIES TO EXPAND IN CANADA
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
<Corby Distilleries Ltd>, 52 pct owned by Allied Lyons Plc <ALLD.L>
subsidiary <Hiram Walker-Goodman & Worts> is to buy the spirits
business of <McGuinness Distillers Ltd> of Toronto for 45 mln Canadian
dlrs. McGuinness is a producer and marketer of spirits and also has
exclusive agencies for some imported wines and spirits. The sale is
subject to the approval of the Bureau of Competition Policy. Michael
Jackaman, president and chief executive officer of Hiram Walker and
Allied Vintners, said, "The acquisition is an excellent one both
commercially and financially." REUTER 

GROUP HAS 5.2 PCT OF DISTRIBUTED LOGIC <DLOG.O>
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
An investor group led by Technology Growth Fund Ltd, an Aspen, Colo.,
investment firm, said it has acquired 129,000 shares of Distributed
Logic Corp, or 5.2 pct of the total, and may try to influence the
company. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
group, which also includes individual investors and a non-profit
foundation, said it bought the stake for 884,414 dlrs as an investment
in the Anaheim, Calif., company. But it also said it is "investigating
the possibility of seeking to influence the composition of the
management" of the company and may increase its stake. Reuter 

DI GIORGIO <DIG> TO EVALUATE GABELLI OFFER
    SAN FRANCISCO, June 29 - 
Di Giorgio Corp said it plans to respond to an unsolicited
recapitalization plan proposed by Gabelli and Co Inc after the
company, its board and its investment bankers evaluate the proposal.
Earlier, Gabelli said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission that it holds a 28.5 pct stake in DiGiorgio and that it,
together with Gamco Investors Inc may seek control of the company. In
addition, on June 25 the Gabelli group proposed to acquire all of Di
Giorgio's common shares for a combination of 20 dlrs per share in
cash, a subordinated note with a face value of eight dlrs and one
common share of the post-buyout company. The June 25 buyout proposal
remains open until July 17. Reuter 

SYSTEM SOFTWARE <SSAX.O> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    CHICAGO, Oct 19 - 
System Software Associates Inc said it completed its previously-
announced acquisition of Admin EDP Pty Ltd for cash and a small amount
of stock. Admin EDP, of Sydney, Australia, is a full-service software
sales and services firm. Reuter 

MIDLANTIC <MIDL.O> TO ACQUIRE COUNTY BANCORP
    EDISON, N.J., April 13 - 
Midlantic Corp said it agreed to acquire County Bancorp for about 23
mln dlrs in an agreement calling for County Trust Co, a County Bancorp
subsidiary, to merge into Midlantic National Bank/North. Midlantic
said it will pay 83.73 dlrs a share in cash, or 2.36 times County
Bancorp's March 31 book value, for each of County's about 276,0000
shares outstanding. It said it received an option from three principal
shareholders for 40 pct of County's outstanding. The acquisition is
expected in the third quarter of 1987 and is subject to regulatory and
shareholder approvals. Reuter 

RTE <RTE> BUYS SOME EMHART <EMH> ASSETS
    BROOKFIELD, WISC, June 29 - 
RTE Corp said it completed the purchase of the U.S. aluminum
electrolytic capacitor business and related assets of Emhart Corp, for
undisclosed terms. Reuter 

PROXMIRE OUTLINES INSIDER TRADING LEGISLATION
    WASHINGTON, April 8 - 
Senate Banking Committee Chairman William Proxmire (D-Wis) said he
planned to introduce legislation shortly to require greater public
disclosure of corporate takeovers and fairer treatment for all
shareholders. Speaking to the National Association of Manufacturers,
Proxmire said recent insider trading stock scandals increased the
chance that Congress will act to curb abuses. "We are proposing
legislation that would provide for more disclosure, would be fairer to
all shareholders, and would insure that takeovers are properly
financed," he said. Among the provisions, the bill would reduce the
threshold for notifying the Securities and Exchange Commission that a
investor or group has acquired a percentage of stock in a company to
three pct from the current five pct threshold within 10 days, Proxmire
said. In addition, there would be a pre-notificaton requirement that
an investor intended to aquire three pct that would have to filed with
the SEC. Proxmire said the pre-notification requirement was meant to
prevent arbitragers from having a jump on the general public in
knowing about coming takeover attempts. Proxmire said he would call
for extending the period that a tender offer must be kept open under
the Williams Act to 60 business days from the current 20 business
days. His bill would provide for private suits if the acquiring
company violated the time period on the tender offer. To correct
abuses in the financing of takeovers, Proxmire said the legislation
would aim at insuring current margin requirments are properly
enforced. The Federal Reserve Board has a 50 pct margin requirement
for purchasing stock, but Proxmire said it is not generally enforced
in hostile takeovers. Rather, the groups or individuals leading a
takeover declare that they can raise the capital for a takeover
without actually putting any of their own money, Proxmire said. He
said his bill would allow private suits for damages for failure to
meet the Federal Reserve's 50 pct margin requirements. The bill also
would require more disclose when several investors form an alliance in
a hostile takeover. "When Pickens and Icahn get together we want
people to know about it," Proxmire said. Proxmire said he favored the
approach used in Britain towards two-tiered tender offers that insures
that all shareholders recieve equal treatment. He said he expected
amendments to the bill also would cover defensive mechanisms such as
green mail and poison pills. Proxmire said he intended to introduce
his bill later this month and predicted the Senate committee would act
this spring. He said he was hopeful Congress could pass a bill this
year. Reuter 

<UNICOA> TO MERGE INTO ITS UNITED INSURANCE UNIT
    CHICAGO, June 29 - 
Unicoa Corp said it agreed to a merger with its wholly-owned
subsidiary, United Insurance Co of America. Under the agreement, each
outstanding share of Unicoa common stock will be converted into one
share of United common stock. The agreement is subject to shareholder
and regulatory approval. Teledyne Inc <TDY> owns about 98.4 pct of
Unicoa's outstanding shares. A shareholder meeting is expected to be
held in August. Reuter 

CCL INDUSTRIES PURCHASES STAKE IN MONOBLOC
    Toronto, April 8 - 
<CCL Industries Inc> said it purchased a majority interest in Monobloc
U.S.A. from Envases Metalurgicos de Alava of Spain. Terms were not
disclosed. CCL also said it agreed to exchange present and future
technology with Envases. Reuter 

GULF AND WESTERN <GW> TO ACQUIRE BRITISH COMPANY
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Gulf and Western Inc's publishing unit, Simon and Schuster, said it
agreed in principle to acquire <Woodhead-Faulkner (Publishers) Ltd>, a
British-based publisher of professional and consumer books, for
undisclosed terms. Upon completion of the proposed transaction,
Woodhead-Faulkner will become part of Simon and Schuster's
International Group, which in the U.K. includes Simon and Schuster
trade books, and Prentice Hall academic texts. Simon and Schuster said
that Woodhead-Faulkner will continue to publish under that name. The
company will continue to be under the direction of Martin Woodhead,
who will report to Henry Hirschberg, president of Simon and Schuster's
International Group. Woodhead-Faulkner, founded in 1972, publishes
international banking, finance, and investment books. Reuter 

IC INDUSTRIES <ICX> MAY SELL AEROSPACE UNIT
    CHICAGO, Oct 19 - 
IC Industries Inc said its board approved a second major step in the
reorganization and restructuring of the company. To implement the plan
of sharpening its strategic focus on consumer goods and services, the
company will give serious consideration to the sale of its Pneumo
Abex, its aerospace and defense company, if it can realize a price
which will return maximum value to shareholders. In 1986, Pneumo Abex
had operating income of 118.1 mln dlrs on sales of 900.5 mln dlrs. IC
said it will use the proceeds of any asset sale to invest in new high-
return businesses in the consumer goods and services field. The
company said it authorized a program to repurchase between 500 mln
dlrs and 1.0 billion dlrs of IC's common stock from time to time when
conditions warrant. It also said it will begin an immediate cost-
reduction program to cust annual operating expenses by 50 mln dlrs. An
IC spokesman said the cost-reduction program involved "across-the-
board" cuts rather than specific about targeted areas. IC's board
earlier approved a plan to spin off the company's Illinois Central
Gulf Railroad to shareholders. The company's other major subsidiaries
are Pet Inc, Pepsi-Cola General Bottlers, Midas International Corp and
Hussmann Corp. Reuter 

NOVA <NVA.A.TO> NOT PLANNING DOME <DMP> BID
    TORONTO, April 13 - 
Nova, an Alberta Corp, chief executive Robert Blair expressed hope
that Dome Petroleum Ltd <DMP> remains under Canadian ownership, but
added that his company plans no bid of its own for debt-troubled Dome.
"We've no plan to bid," Blair told reporters after a speech to a
business group, although he stressed that Nova and 57 pct-owned Husky
Oil Ltd <HYO> were interested in Dome's extensive Western Canadian
energy holdings. "But being interested can sometimes be different from
making a bid," Blair said. TransCanada PipeLines Ltd <TRP> yesterday
bid 4.30 billion dlrs for Dome, but Dome said it was discontinuing
talks with TransCanada and was considering a proposal from another
company and was also talking with another possible buyer, both rumored
to be offshore. Asked by reporters if Dome should remain in Canadian
hands, Blair replied, "Yes. I think that we still need to be building
as much Canadian position in this industry as we can and I think it
would be best if Dome ends up in the hands of Canadian management." He
said he did not know who other possible bidders were. Blair said that
any move to put Dome's financial house in order "will remove one of
the general problems of attitude that have hung over Western Canadian
industry." He added, however, that the energy industry still faced "a
couple of tough, tough additional years." Asked about Nova's 1987
prospects, Blair predicted that Nova's net profit would rise this year
to more than 150 mln dlrs from last year's net profit of 100.2 mln
dlrs due to improved product prices and continued cost-cutting. Reuter


DATRON <DATR> AGREES TO BUYOUT BY OFFICERS
    MINNEAPOLIS, MINN., April 8 - 
Datron Corp said it agreed to merge with GGFH Inc, a Florida-based
company formed by the four top officers of the company. According to
terms of the proposed transaction, each share of Datron common stock,
excluding those shares owned by the four officers, will be bought for
six dlrs a share, it said. Datron's officers hold about 73 pct of the
total 896,000 Datron common shares outstanding. Upon completion of the
proposed transaction, the officers of Datron would own 100 pct of the
company. The merger is subject to GGHF's receiving financing for the
plan, Datron said. Shareholders of Datron will be asked to approve the
plan at their annual meeting to be held in June or July, and the
merger is expected to be completed by July 31, it said. Reuter 

CADILLAC FAIRVIEW SAYS IT RECEIVED TAKEOVER BIDS
    Toronto, April 9 - 
<Cadillac Fairview Corp Ltd> said it received proposals to acquire the
company, following its announcement last August that it had retained
investment dealers to solicit offers for all outstanding common
shares. Cadillac Fairview said the offers are subject to clarification
and negotiation and offered no further details. Reuter 

CIRCLE EXPRESS<CEXX.O> ENDS OVERLAND<OVER.O> BUY
    INDIANAPOLIS, Oct 20 - 
Circle Express Inc said negotiations on its proposed acquisitions of
Overland Express Inc and privately-held Continental Training Services
Inc have been terminated by mutual agreement. The company said the
recent declines in stock prices have made it unlikely that the
transactions could qualify as tax-free reorganizations. Reuter 

USAIR TO BUY 55 PCT OF 17.0 MLN PIEDMONT SHARES TENDERED




LVI GROUP <LVI> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    NEW YORK, April 9 - 
LVI Group Inc said it has agreed in principle to purchase all
outstanding shares of <Spectrum Holding Corp> for a proposed 13 mln
dlrs in cash. LVI said an additional 10 mln dlrs in common stock and
seven mln dlrs in notes will become payable if Spectrum has certain
minimum future earnings. LVI, an interior construction firm, said the
acquisition is subject to execution of a definitive agreement and
completion of due diligence. LVI and Spectrum, an asbestos abatement
concern, expect to close the deal in June, LVI said. Reuter 

RESDEL <RSDL.O>, SAN/BAR <SBAR.O> IN MERGER DEAL
    NEWPORT BEACH, Calif., June 2 - 
Resdel Industries Inc said it has agreed to acquire San/Bar Corp in a
share-for-share exchange, after San/Bar distributes all shgares of its
Break-Free Corp subsidiary to San/Bar shareholders on a share-for-
share basis. The company said also before the merger, San/Bar would
Barry K. Hallamore and Lloyd G. Hallamore, San/Bar's director of
corporate development, 1,312,500 dlrs and 1,087,500 dlrs respectviely
under agreements entered into in October 1983. Reuter 

GENERAL PARTNERS CUTS STAKE IN GENCORP <GY>
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
General Partners told the Securities and Exchange Commission it has
reduced its stake in GenCorp Inc to 8.6 pct, from 9.8 pct, by selling
250,000 shares at a price equal to 118.5 dlrs per share. General
Partners, which includes GC Holdings Inc and General Acquisitions Inc,
said yesterday it was dropping its 100-dlr-a-share hostile takeover
bid for GenCorp because of GenCorp's move to buy back its shares for
up to 130 dlrs each. Reuter 

HEALTH PROPERTIES <HRP> TO BUY PROPERTIES
    CAMBRIDGE, Mass. June 29 - 
Health and Rehabilitation Properties Trust said it reached an
understanding to purchase three nursing facilities in Mass. and Conn.
for 29 mln dlrs from Greenery Rehabilitation Group Inc <GRGI.O>. The
buildings will be leased back to Greenery for an initial term of seven
years, subject to renewal options for an additional 23 years, Health
and Rehabilitation Properties said. The transaction is expected to
close on or before August 31. Reuter 

ATLANTIS GROUP TELLS SEC IT SEEKS NEGOTIATED PURCHASE OF CHARTER-CRELLIN




INDUSTRIAL EQUITY TELLS SEC IT WILL SEND CALMAT PROPOSAL FOR BUSINESS COMBINATION




GORDON TO MAKE BID TO ACQUIRE PAGECORP <PGOA.TO>
    TORONTO, Oct 20 - 
<Gordon Investment Corp> said it plans to make an offer to acquire all
of Pagecorp Inc's class A and Class B shares for 9.25 dlrs cash per
share. The bid is conditional upon an examination by Gordon of the
business and affairs of Pagecorp during the 45 days ending December 3,
1987. The proposed offer would be condition upon ainimum number of
shares being tendered, Gordon said. It did not say what the minimum
will be. Meanwhile, Pagecorp said it agreed to grant Gordon an option
to purchaser 900,000 class A shares at 9.25 dlrs per share, which is
exercisable only if Gordon makes the acquisition bid before December
4, 1987 or if any third party begins a takeover before December 31,
1987. Pagecorp also said all Class B shareholders have agreed to
deposit their class B shares, if Gordon proceeds with its offer.
Reuter 

MTECH <MTCH> HAS 33,467 COMMERCIAL SHARES
    IRVING, Texas, June 19 - 
MTech Corp said it has received 33,467 shares of Commercial Resources
Corp in response to its 10.25 dlr per share tender offer for all
150,000 shares. The company said it has extended the offer until July
2. It was to have expired yesterday. Reuter 

JANNOCK <JN.TO> ACQUIRES HALF-STAKE IN PRINTER
    TORONTO, April 13 - 
Jannock Ltd said its Jannock Imaging Co Ltd unit acquired a 50 pct
stake in Arthurs-Jones Lithographing Ltd, of Toronto, for undisclosed
terms. It said the acquisition would lift Jannock Imaging revenues to
50 mln dlrs this year. It did not specify Arthurs-Jones' 1986
revenues. Reuter 

GROUP RAISES NASH FINCH <NAFC.O> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 18 - 
A group including members of the Sobey family of Nova Scotia and
Empire Company Ltd, said it raised its stake in Nash Finch Co to
442,498 shares, or 8.6 pct of the total outstanding, from 374,498
shares, or 7.3 pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the group said it bought 68,000 Nash Finch common shares
between April 7 and June 17. Reuter 

CAREMARK <CMRK.O> TO VOTE BAXTER <BAX> MERGER
    NEWPORT BEACH, Calif., June 29 - 
Caremark Inc and Baxter Travenol Laboratories Inc jointly announced
that Caremark shareholders will vote on July 31 to approve the
previously announced merger with Baxter. The companies said Caremark
shareholders of record as of June 26 will be entitled to vote at the
meeting to be held in Newport Beach, Calif, at 1000 PDT. On May 11,
Baxter and Carmark announced a definitive agreement for Baxter to
acquire Carmark in a stock transaction valued at 528 mln dlrs. Reuter


CITICORP <CCI> SAVINGS EXTENDS CALIFORNIA REACH
    OAKLAND, Calif, June 29 - 
Citicorp has extended its reach into the California market with
Citicorp Savings' acquisition of 50 of Sears Roebuck's <S> Sears
Savings Bank branches, bringing its presences to 143 branches in 101
communities, CitiCorp Savings said. Thrift industry analysts said the
move, approved by the Federal Reserve board today, is a plus for
Citicorp and shows its serious intent to penetrate the California
market. The acquisition mostly extends Citicorp's reach into Southern
California, where 34 of the 50 branches are located. Citicorp Savings
was predominantly in Northern California. "This marks our first major
expansion in California, particularly in the south," said Citicorp
Savings President Edward Valencia, in a statement. Thrift industry
sources said they do not see a major near-term impact on the Southern
California thrift market, but do expect Citicorp to be a more
aggressive competitor than Sears was in that market. "We do believe
they will be a better competitor than Sears," said James Stutz,
Executive Vice President of Home Federal Savings and Loan Association
<HFD>, based in San Diego. Banking industry sources said the move is
viewed as groundwork, to establish Citicorp throughout the California
market, well before the 1991 law change that will allow it to operate
as a bank in the state. They said Citicorp is likely to convert the
branches to banks at that time. In the near-term, however, analysts
said with seven billion dlrs in assets, Citicorp Savings is still not
a major force in the thrift market, against such large California
thrifts as Home Federal, Great Western Financial Corp <GWF>, H F
Ahmanson and Co <AHM>, Golden West Financial <GWD> and Great American
First Savings Bank <GTA>. Reuter 

ALLWASTE <ALWS.O> TO ACQUIRE FIRM
    HOUSTON, Oct 19 - 
Allwaste Inc said it entered into an agreement in principle to buy
Tank Cleaning Co, a privately-held company that cleans tank trailers,
in exchange for about 1.3 mln shares or Allwaste common. Allwaste said
that Tank Cleaning earned about one mln dlrs before taxes last year
and had about 1.5 mln dlrs in pre-tax income for the nine months ended
September 30. Reuter 

BROWN DISC TO BUY RHONE-POULENC <RHON.PA> UNIT
    COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo., Oct 19 - 
Brown Disc Products Co Inc, a unit fo Genevar Enterprises Inc, said it
has purchased the ongoing business, trademarks and certain assets of
Rhone-Poulenc's Brown Disc Manufacturing unit, for undisclosed terms.
Rhone-Poulenc is a French-based chemical company. Under the agreement,
Rhone-Poulenc will supply magnetic tape and media products to Brown
Disc Products. Reuter 

FIDELCOR <FICR.O> BUYS NEW ENGLAND <BKNE.O>STAKE
    PHILADELPHIA, June 19 - 
Fidelcor Inc said it has acquired a substantial portion of the assets
of Bank of New England Corp's Lazere Financial Corp subsidiary for
undisclosed terms. The company said the transaction includes most of
Lazere's loan portfolio and other assets, including Lazere's Miami
office. Reuter 

IDC SERVICES <IDCS.O> HOLDERS OFFERED 16 DLRS
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
IDC Services Inc said a new company will begin a cash tender offer by
October 26 to acquire all of IDC's outstanding common for 16 dlrs a
share. The company said the offer is being made under a definitive
agreement reached with the new company, IDC Acquisition Corp, formed
by Apollo Partners Ltd and investment clients of <Equitable Capital
Management Inc>. The agreement calls for the acquisition of IDC for
about 62.4 mln dlrs. IDC Acquisition will also tender for all of IDC's
outstanding nine pct convertible subordinated debentures. IDC said the
merger agreement also provides for payment of an equivalent amount in
respect of employee stock options to be cancelled in the merger. As
part of the transaction, the company said, it granted IDC Acquisition
an option to acquire up to 20 pct of the company's outstanding shares
for 16 dlrs per share. It said the planned tender offer is subject to
several conditions, including the tendering of over 50 pct of the
company's outstanding stock. MIM Holdings Ltd <MIMA.S>, a substantial
shareholder in IDC, has agreed it will not buy any additional IDC
shares until February seven and has granted IDC Acquisition a right of
first refusal on any IDC shares it sells during that period, the
company said. It said Apollo Partners was recently organized by three
former senior Viacom Inc <VIA> executives, Terrence A. Elkes, George
C. Catell and Kenneth F. Gorman. Reuter 

EQUITICORP TASMAN TO BID FOR MONIER LTD
    SYDNEY, June 2 - 
<Equiticorp Tasman Ltd> (ETL) said it will offer 4.15 dlrs a share
cash for all the issued capital of Monier Ltd <MNRA.S>, currently the
subject of a 3.80 dlrs a share bid by CSR Ltd <CSRA.S>. Alternatively,
ETL will offer three shares plus 82 cents cash for each Monier share,
it said in a statement. As previously reported, ETL moved into the
market for Monier shares last week, taking its stake to 13.7 pct by
Friday. It now holds 14.99 pct, the maximum allowed without Foreign
Investment Review Board (FIRB) approval. ETL is classified as foreign
because of its New Zealand base. The ETL cash offer values Monier's
issued capital of 156.28 mln shares at 649 mln dlrs, against 593 mln
for the CSR bid. Based on the current price of ETL shares of 1.05
dlrs, the alternative is worth 3.97 dlrs per share, but ETL said the
value placed on its shares for the offer aproximates to the diluted
asset backing of ETL as at March 31. ETL said the offer will have no
minimum acceptance conditions and will be subject to Australian
foreign investment and U.S. Hart-Scott-Rodino anti-trust clearances.
ETL chairman Allan Hawkins said in the statement that the shareholding
in Monier was a long term investment. ETL and its <Feltex
International Ltd> associate have targetted the building products
sector as an area of expansion and Monier fits well with this aim, he
added. Monier chairman Bill Locke said in a separate statement that
the independent directors of Monier intend to recommend acceptance of
the ETL bid in the absence of a higher bid. He also said Monier will
not now proceed with the one-for-two bonus issue announced with its
interim results on March 19 in view of the proposed takeover bids. As
previously reported, the CSR offer involves a complex put and call
option deal with Monier's major shareholder, Redland Plc <RDLD.L>,
which gives Redland the choice of accepting the CSR offer for its 49.8
pct stake or moving to 50.1 pct within six months of the bid closing.
CSR officials have made it clear that they see Redland taking the
second option, resulting in the two companies running Monier as a
joint venture. CSR officials have also said they had no intention of
raising the company's bid for Monier after ETL's intervention became
public last week. REUTER 

DYNASCAN <DYNA.O> COMPLETES MANAGEMENT BUYOUT
    CHICAGO, Oct 19 - 
Dynascan Corp said it completed the sale of its industrial electronic
products group and expects to recognize about a 3.0 mln dlr pretax
gain on the transaction in the fourth quarter. It said the group was
sold October 15 for 13.5 mln dlrs to Maxtec International Corp, a
privately held company created by the company's management team. It
said the purchase price was 12 mln dlrs in cash and 1.5 mln dlrs in
five-year notes plus warrants to buy 7.0 pct of the stock of Maxtec.
Dynascan said the group was projected to provide about 12 pct of its
consolidated sales in 1987. Reuter 

EDELMAN GROUP COMMITTED TO TELEX <TC> BID
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
TLX Partners, a group led by Asher Edelman, does not see any problems
with its 65 dlr per share bid for Telex Corp, a Shearson Lehman
official advising the group said. Several other takeover proposals
have crumbled following declines in financial markets, leading to
speculation that Edelman might also drop his offer. Telex fell 11 to
34-1/4. Earlier today, Carl Icahn dropped his bid to take Trans World
Airlines Inc <TWA> private and Dart Group Corp <DARTA.O> said it
abandoned plans to acquire Dayton Hudson Corp <DH>. Both cited market
conditions. "Nothing fundamental has changed with the company. The
stock price has changed, but the company hasn't changed so there's no
reason for us to change," said Daniel Good, head of Shearson Lehman
merchant banking. "Things are proceeding as planned, and we fully
expect that at the time we have to pay for the shares the financing
will be in place," Good said. Shearson has agreed to provide bridge
financing of up to 600 mln dlrs for the Edelman group. Reuter 

INVESTMENT FIRM HAS 5.3 PCT OF BLASIUS <BLAS.O>
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
Fidelity International Ltd, a Bermuda-based investment advisory firm,
and an affiliated investment firm, American Values III N.V., said they
have acquired 208,000 share of Blasius Industries Inc. In a filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group said it bought
the stake, which amounts to 5.3 pct of the total outstanding common
stock, to acquire an equity interest in the company for investment
purposes. The group said it may raise its stake or sell some or all of
it, and has no plans to seek control of the company. Reuter 

PENNSYLVANIA ENTERPRISES <PENT.O> BID STANDS
    WILKES-BARRE, Pa., June 1 - 
Utilities Investment Inc said it still is offering to acquire
Pennsylvania Enterprises Inc for 55 dlrs per share. It said it is
prepared to negotiate its offer. The Pennsylvania Enterprises board
rejected the offer two weeks ago as being inadequate. Utilities said
it has the financial commitments required to ensure that Pennsylvania
Enterprises' facilities would be upgraded to insure an adequate supply
of safe drinking water. It said its representatives will be attending
Pennsylvania Enterprises' annual meeting tomorrow in Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
Reuter 

RJ NABISCO'S <RJR> UNIT SELLS CIGAR BUSINESS
     WINSTON-SALEM, N.C., April 13 - 
RJR Nabisco Inc's RJ Reynolds Tobacco USA unit said it reached a
definitive agreement to sell Winchester Little Cigar Business to
Tobacco Exporters International USA Ltd of Atlanta, the U.S.
subsidiary of Rothman's International PLC. Terms were not disclosed.
Last week, RJ Reynolds announced the sale of four smoking tobacco
brands. These brands and Winchester represent less than one pct of Rj
Reynolds Tobacco USA's total sales, which were 4.7 billion dlrs in
1986. Reynolds said the sale is expected to be completed on April 24.
The company said it planned to concentrate its resources on the
manufacture and sale of cigarettes. Reynolds said that Winchester,
introduced in 1971, was a dominant brand in the little cigar market.
Reuter 

MAY <MA> WON'T BUY ALLIED'S DEY BROTHERS STORES
    ST. LOUIS, June 18 - 
May Department Stores Co said it terminated an agreement with Allied
Stores Corp to buy from Allied the four Dey Brothers Stores in
Syracuse, N.Y. May and Allied said conditions necessary for the
closing were not met. May had planned to make the acquisition an
expansion of its Sibley's Department Store Co, which operates in
Syracuse, Rochester and Buffalo, N.Y. Reuter 

TIME <TL> TO SELL PART OF UNIT
    NEW YORK, April 9 - 
Time Inc said its Time-Life Video Inc subsidiary has agreed in
principle to sell its institutional training business to Time-Life
Video president William V. Ambrose for undisclosed terms. It said the
business will operate as Ambrose Video Publishing. Reuter 

MAXTOR CORP <MXTR.O> BUYS PRIVATE FIRM
    SAN JOSE, Calif., June 29 - 
Maxtor Corp said it bought privately-held Storage Dimensions Inc for
an undisclosed sum. The company said Storage Dimensions incorporates
Maxtor's high-capacity 5-1/4-inch Winchester and optical disk drives
into a family of data storage subsystems for IBM PCs, XTs, ATs and
compatibles. Storage Dimensions is the creator or SpeedStor software,
a utility program that integrates high-capacity disk drives into PCs.
Maxtor said the purchase reflects its desire to compete in the high-
capacity segment of the PC market. Reuter 

ALLEGIS <AEG> MEETS WITH UNITED EMPLOYEES GROUP
    CHICAGO, June 18 - 
A spokesman for a group of United Airlines employees, who oppose the
attempted takeover of United by the Airline Pilots Association, said
he met with the new chairman of Allegis, Frank Olson. William Palmer,
the group's spokesman, which claims to speak for thousands of United
employees, said the meeting with Olson was "positive and friendly,"
but no future meeting dates were set. In April the pilots union
offered to buy out United, an Allegis subsidiary, through an employee
stock ownership plan. Reuter 

COKE CONSOLIDATED <COKE.O> TO SELL CANADA UNIT
    CHARLOTTE, N.C., June 1 - 
Coca-Cola Bottling Co Consolidated said it has agreed in principle to
sell its Vancouver-based Canadian bottling subsidiary to Coca-Cola Co
<KO> for undisclosed terms, with closing expected within 60 days
subject to regulatroy approvals. The company said the sale, a
previously-announced agreement for Coca-Cola to buy 1,600,000 Coke
Consolidated common shares and operating cash flow should allow it to
reduce its long-term debvt to about 200 nmln dlrs from 325 mln dlrs at
the end of the first quarter. Reuter 

HUMANA <HUM> TO SELL MEDICAL OFFICES
    LOUISVILLE, Ky., April 9 - 
Humana Inc said it has agreed in principle to sell 68 MedFirst primary
medical care facilities to <Primedical Corp> for undisclosed terms,
with transfers taking place over the next four months. It said it
retains 37 MedFirst offices, mostly in the Chicago area. The
transaction is not expected to have any impact on earnings, Humana
said. Reuter 

NAT'L COMPUTER <NLCS.O> TO BUY DATA CARD STAKE
    MINNEAPOLIS, MINN., June 19 - 
National Computer Systems Inc said it agreed to acquire Deluxe Check
Printers Inc's <DLX> 38 pct stake in Data Card Corp. National Computer
said it plans to issue 45 mln dlrs in five year subordinated
convertible debentures to purchase the 3,749,401 shares of Data Card
from Deluxe. Completion of the proposed transaction, subject to
regulatory approval, is expected in mid-July, it said. The debenture
will bear an increasing rate of interest over its term, with a 7.3 pct
weighted average rate and will be convertible into National Computer
common stock at 20 dlrs a share, it said. Separately, Deluxe said its
Data Card investment no longer fits its business strategy. Deluxe has
held an interest in Data Card since 1975 when it provided funds for
Data Card to buy Troy Computer Products Corp. In November 1986, Data
Card said it planned to sell its Troy division. Reuter 

KRAFT <KRA> COMPLETES BUY OF QUAKER <OAT> UNIT
    GLENVIEW, ILL., June 29 - 
Kraft Inc said it has completed the previously announced acquisition
of the Anderson Clayton Foods Division from Quaker Oats Co for 235 mln
dlrs in cash. Reuter 

N. AMERICAN COMMUNICATIONS <NACS.O> WEIGHS SALE
    HECTOR, Minn., June 19 - 
North American Communications Corp said it is considering several
options to maximize shareholder value, including a possible sale,
merger, corporate restructuring, or leveraged buyout. Trading in the
company's stock was halted pending an announcement. The company, which
owns and operates 47 cable television systems in Minnesota and
Wisconsin, said it retained Communications Equity Associates as its
financial adviser to explore alternatives. Reuter 

BRENDA MINES SELLING KERR ADDISON SHARES
    TORONTO, April 9 - 
<Brenda Mines Ltd> said it sold 2,830,390 <Kerr Addison Mines Ltd>
shares to a group of underwriters led by Wood Gundy Inc and Brown,
Baldwin Nisker Ltd for redistribution. Financial terms were
undisclosed. Reuter 

BOEING <BA> MERGER WAITING PERIOD EXPIRES
    SEATTLE, June 19 - 
Boeing Co said the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period required in
connection with its pending tender offer for ArgoSystems Inc <ARGI.O>
expired at midnight June 18. Boeing began its 37 dlr per share cash
tender offer for the defense electronics firm on June two. Reuter 

C.O.M.B. <CMCO> MAKES ACQUISITION
    MINNEAPOLIS, April 9 - 
C.O.M.B. Co said it acquired for 8.7 mln dlrs the principal assets of
National Tech Industries Inc and Telkon Corp. The companies are
engaged in servicing, sales and telemarketing of consumer electronic
merchandise. Reuter 

JUDGE TO RULE MONDAY ON BURLINGTON <BUR> CASE
    New York, June 19 - 
Manhattan Federal Court Judge Shirley Wohl Kram said she would rule
Monday on whether to grant a request to block a 78 dlr per share
merger agreement between Burlington Industries Inc and Morgan Stanely
Group Inc <MS>. The request to bar the merger was made by Samjens
Acquisition Corp, a partnership formed by financier Asher B. Edelman
and Dominion Textiles Inc. Samjens has made a hostile 77 dlr per share
takeover bid for Burlington. Reuter 

GREYHOUND AGREES TO ACQUIRE TRAILWAYS ROUTES
    DALLAS, June 19 - 
<Greyhound Lines> said it agreed to acquire the routes of <Trailways
Corp>. Greyhound said it had petitioned the Interstate Commerce
Commission for authority to acquire and operate Trailways' routes, 450
of its 1200 buses and some of its terminals and garages. Trailways has
abandoned all service in seven states in the past year and more than
half of its sevice in three other states, the company said. "Without
intervention, the collaspe of Trailways is imminent," said Fred
Currey, chairman and president of Greyhound. Reuter 

NORTH AMERICAN COMMUNICATIONS WEIGHS POSSIBLE SALE OR
MERGER




FIRST COMMERCIAL <FCOB.O> TO ACQUIRE CITIZENS BANK
    SACRAMENTO, Oct 20 - 
First Commercial Bancorp said it will acquire the three-branch
Citizens Bank of Roseville in a stock swap. The value of the agreement
will be based on Citizens' adjusted book value at year end and the
trading price of First Commercial's stock. Citizens' book value was
about 1.9 mln dlrs at the end of the third quarter, according to the
bank's counsel, Guy Gibson. Under the agreement, Citizens shareholders
could also trade their stock for a five-year debenture issued by First
Commercial. Terms of the debenture have not been established. Reuter 

SEC SAYS CAMPEAU UNIT VIOLATED DISCLOSURE RULES
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
The Securities and Exchange Commission charged Allied Stores Corp with
failing to promptly disclose key steps it was taking last September to
thwart a takeover attempt by Campeau Corp. In an administrative
complaint, the SEC said Allied and its legal adviser failed to
promptly inform shareholders and the agency that it had begun talks
with Youngstown, Ohio, shopping center developer Edward DeBartolo in
response to Campeau's takeover offer. Campeau acquired Allied for an
estimated 4.2 billion dlrs on Jan 1, following a battle with
DeBartolo. On Sept 25, a day after Allied disclosed that its board had
urged rejection of Campeau's Sept 12 tender offer for 58 dlrs a share,
Allied began negotiating the sale of six shopping centers to
DeBartolo, the SEC said. Allied legal advisor and director George
Kern, who heads the merger and acquisitions group at the New York law
firm of Sullivan and Cromwell, decided against amending Allied's SEC
filing to disclose the talks even though they had resulted in sales
price of 405 mln dlrs for the shopping centers, it said. Securities
law requires takeover target companies to promptly disclose such
things as the sale of major assets. The day after Campeau increased
its tender offer to 80 pct of Allied's stock from 55 pct and raised
its bid to 66 dlrs a share from 58 dlrs on Sept 29, Allied and a
partnership headed by DeBartolo began negotiating a takeover deal
aimed at thwarting Campeau, the SEC said. Kern again decided against
disclosing the talks in an amended SEC filing, the agency charged.
Allied's first disclosure of the DeBartolo takeover was made on Oct 8,
even though its board approved the merger on Oct 3 and the merger
agreement was executed on Oct 7, the complaint said. DeBartolo and
Campeau later engaged in a bitter battle for control of Allied, with
Campeau winning out later in October when it bought a block of 25.8
mln shares of Allied stock, or 48 pct of the total, in a controversial
move made only minutes after it dropped its hostile tender offer. The
acquisition of the additional 48 pct, which a federal judge allowed to
be completed, gave Campeau a majority stake in Allied. Campeau bought
the rest at 69 dlrs a share. The SEC said it had planned to file a
court brief joining with Allied in charging that Campeau had engaged
in an illegal tender offer. But the SEC brief was never filed since
the case was dropped following an agreement between Campeau and
DeBartolo. In the administrative proceeding against Allied and Kern,
the SEC is asking for an administrative order that they comply with
reporting provisions of securities laws in the future. Although Allied
is no longer publicly traded since it became a subsidiary of Campeau,
it still files annual and quarterly reports to the SEC because it has
outstanding debt. Reuter 

HMO AMERICA <HMOA> AGREES TO BE ACQUIRED
    CHICAGO, April 13 - 
HMO America Inc said it signed a letter of intent with Mount Sinai
Medical Center here and an affiliate, providing that all of its common
and preferred stock be acquired by a new not-for-profit company to be
controlled by Mount Sinai and other Chicago area not-for-profit
hospitals who may elect to participate in the acquisition. The form of
the transaction has not yet been determined, it said. According to
terms, HMO's shareholders would receive a combination of cash and debt
securities to be issued by the buyer in exchange for their outstanding
shares of common and preferred stock, it said. The amount of cash per
share has not yet been determined, it added. Arrangements for
financing have not yet been made and there can be no assurance that
any financing will be received, HMO said. Closing of the proposed
transaction, if it is completed, is expected on or before November 2,
1987, it said. Reuter 

CANADA ALLOWS PUBLISHING TAKEOVER BY HARCOURT
    OTTAWA, April 8 - 
Investment Canada said it has allowed the indirect takeover of Holt,
Rinehart and Winston Canada Ltd., W.B. Saunders Co of Canada Ltd and
Les Editions HRW Ltd by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Canada Inc. The
government agency said, however, Harcourt Canada has agreed to sell
control of the firms to Canadian interests within two years. Harcourt
Canada's U.S. parent, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc <HBJ>, indirectly
acquired the Canadian book publishing companies when it purchased Holt
Rinehart and Winston from CBS Inc <CBS> last October. Reuter 

TOTAL HEALTH <TLHT.O> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    GREAT NECK, N.Y., June 1 - 
Total Health Systems Inc said it has agreed to acquire CoMED Inc of
Denville, N.J., a health maintenance organization with over 63,000
subscribers, for an undisclosed amount of cash, the assumption of
liabilities and the provision of up to 10 mln dlrs in equity and debt
financing. The company said the acquisition is subject to regulatory
approvals. It said CoMED had 1986 revenues of 30.0 mln dlrs and
earnings of 650,383 dlrs and had revenues for the first four months of
1987 of 13.6 mln dlrs, up 60 pct from a year before. Reuter 

DIXONS EXPLORING SALE OF CYCLOPS <CYL> UNIT
     WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
Dixons Group Plc <DXNS.L>, the British concern that recently acquired
operational control of Cyclops Corp, said it is exploring the
possibility of selling the Cyclops subsidiary, Busy Beaver Building
Centers Inc. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Dixons said it has determined to explore the possibility of the sale
following its preliminary review of the business and activities of
Cyclops. Busy Beaver Building Centers is a Pittsburgh, Pa., lumber and
building materials company. Dixons won control of Cyclops with a 95
dlr a share tender offer. Reuter 

SSMC <SSM> TO BUY CUTTERS EXCHANGE DIVISION
    STAMFORD, Conn, June 29 - 
SSMC Inc said it has executed a letter of understanding to acquire the
Parts Catalog Division of <Cutters Exchange Inc> for an undisclosed
amount. SSMC, spun off from the Singer Co <SMF> a year ago, said that
the Parts Catalog Division wholesales parts and needles to the
industrial sewing trade in the U.S. Under the agreement, key managers
and employees of the Parts Catalog Division in Nashville, Tenn, will
relocate to the SSMC facility in Murfreesboro, SSMC said. Reuter 

<K.G. SAUR> SELLS ASSETS TO REED INTERNATIONAL
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
K.G. Saur, the German-based publisher of databases and legal and
bilbiographic reference material, said it has sold all of its assets
to The Butterworth Group, a division of Reed International PLC
<REED.L>, for under 15 mln dlrs. Saur said Klaus Saur, president and
owner of the company, will remain president of Saur operations in
Munich, London and New York. Reuter 

AMERIBANC <AINV.O>, CARDINAL END ACQUISITION
    ANNANDALE, Va., June 1 - 
Ameribanc Investors Group and Cardinal Savings and Loan Association
jointly announced that the proposed acquisition of Cardinal by
Ameribanc has been terminated by mutual agreement. Reuter 

WALL STREET STOCKS/UAL INC <UAL>
    New York, April 9 - 
Takeover speculation continues to fuel heavy trading in UAL Inc,
traders said. UAL rose 1-5/8 to 73-5/8 on volume of more than two mln
shares, after trading with little upward movement earlier in the
session. Traders said rumors, which began yesterday, added to
speculation that the company would be the target of a takeover. They
said it was believed Coniston Partners and the Pritzker family of
Chicago were buying the stock. Coniston declined comment and the
Pritzkers had no comment. Traders said there was speculation a bidder
might appear, and also that real estate developer Donald Trump, who
holds a stake in UAL, might participate in a takeover bid. UAL pilots
said they would be willing to pay 4.5 billion dlrs, which includes
debt, for the company's United Airlines unit. Reuter 

SAFETY-KLEEN <SK> COMPLETES ACQUISITION
    ELGIN, ILL., June 1 - 
Safety-Kleen Corp said it completed the acquisition of an 80 pct
interest in BresLube Enterprises, for about 12 mln dlrs in stock and
cash. BresLube, based in Toronto, collects used lubricating oils from
auto garages, car dealers and other businesses, and re-refines it for
resale. Its annual revenues are about 18 mln dlrs. Reuter 

UNI-MARTS <IMMA.O> ACQUIRES GAS-N-ALL STORES
    STATE COLLEGE, Pa., June 1 - 
Uni Marts Inc said it acquired seven <Gas-N-All Inc> convenience
stores for an undisclosed amount of cash. The acquisition bring to 228
the number of convenience stores owned by Uni-Marts, the company said.
Reuter 

PARTNERSHIP INCREASES GULL <GLL> HOLDINGS
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Gary Associates LP, which said previously it may seek control of Gull
Inc, said it increased its stake in Gull common stock to 388,900
shares, or 7.7 pct of the total outstanding, from a previous figure of
approximately 318,000 shares, or 6.2 pct. In a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Gary Associates said it made net
purchases of 70,900 Gull common shares at 15 dlrs to 18.62 dlrs a
share. Gary Associates made no mention of a possible takeover attempt
in its report to the SEC. Reuter 

STEINBERG GROUP HAS FIVE PCT OF PIZZA INN <PZA>
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
A group controlled by New York investor Saul Steinberg told the
Securities and Exchange Commission it has acquired 168,500 shares of
Pizza Inn Inc, or 5.02 pct of the total outstanding common stock. The
group, which includes Reliance Financial Serivces Corp, a subsidiary
of Reliance Group Holdings Inc <REL>, said it bought the stock as an
investment. It said it might add to its stake or sell some or all of
it. The Steinberg group said it bought the stock for 1.75 mln dlrs in
open market purchases between April 13 and May 19 at prices ranging
from 13.625 to 14.2661 dlrs a share. Reuter 

FRONTIER INSURANCE <FRTR> IN ACQUISITION TALKS
    MONTICELLO, N.Y., April 8 - 
Frontier Insurance Group Inc said it is currently negotiating to
acquire the business of Medical Quadrangle Inc, formerly its largest
medical malpractice insurance producer, and the business of its other
malpractice producer, Medical Professional Liability Agency Inc. It
gave no details. Reuter 

TEXAS AIR <TEX> UNIT COMPLETES SYSTEM SALE
    MIAMI, April 13 - 
Texas Air Corp's Eastern Airlines said it completed its previously
announced plan to sell its travel agency automation system, SystemOne
Direct Access Inc, and its computer and communications support unit,
EAL Automation Systems Inc, to SystemOne Corp, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Texas Air Corp. Reuter 

GILLETTE SAYS REVLON ASKED ITS BOARD TO CONSENT TO 40.50
DLRS PER SHARE OFFER




COMMUNICATIONS AND CABLE <CCAB.O> BUYS STAKE
    WEST PALM BEACH, Fla., Oct 19 - 
Communications and Cable Inc said it acquired about 21 pct of the
outstanding shares of Imnet Corp, a privately owned company that
designs, makes and services proprietary image storage and retrieval
systems. Terms were not disclosed. Reuter 

DOME <DMP> PLAN MAY FORCE SALE OF ENCOR STAKE
    TORONTO, April 8 - 
Dome Petroleum Ltd's proposal to restructure debt of more than 6.10
billion Canadian dlrs includes provisions that may force the company
to sell its 42 pct stake in <Encor Energy Corp Inc>, Dome said in a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Dome said in the
filing that its debt plan proposes making payments under a five year
income debenture to the lender whose debt is secured by Dome's Encor
shares. After the five years are up, "under certain circumstances the
shares of Encor may be required to be disposed," the company said.
Dome has pledged its 42.5 mln Encor shares as security for part of its
debt to <Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce>, estimated last year at
947 mln dlrs. Analysts have said Commerce Bank was pressing Dome to
sell the stock to pay down its debt. Dome's Encor shares had a market
value of 313 mln dlrs on March 17, 1987, the company's filing said. As
previously reported, Dome is seeking approval in principle for the
debt restructuring plan. Dome said in the filing it proposed lenders
sign a letter of understanding in early April, with implementation to
be effective July 1, 1987. Dome Petroleum reiterated in the SEC filing
that its existence as a going concern is dependent on continuing the
interim debt plan, due to expire on June 30, and winning agreement for
its proposed restructuring plan. "The company believes that the
negotiation and implementation of the proposed debt restructuring plan
is realistic and achievable," Dome said. "However, the final outcome
of the negotiations cannot be predicted at this time," it said. Reuter


DUMEZ HAS 478,125 UNITED WESTBURNE<UWI.TO>SHARES
    MONTREAL, June 2 - 
Dumez Investments Inc said it is accepting and paying for 478,125
shares of United Westburne Industries Ltd in response to its 25 dlr
per share tender offer and it has extended the offer until June 26.
Dumez, 70 pct owned by Dumez SA <DUMP.PA> and 30 pct by Unicorp Canada
Corp <UNIA.TO>, said the 478,125 shares represent 81.6 pct of those
not controlled by Westburne International Ltd, which Dumez previously
acquired in a tender. Reuter 

CPC INTERNATIONAL <CPC> COMPLETES ASIAN SALE
    ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J., June 1 - 
CPC International Inc said it has completed previously-announced
transactions involving its grocery products businesses in four Asian
countries with Ajinomoto Co Inc <AJIN.T>, raising about 300 mln dlrs.
It said it will receive about 40 mln dlrs more later, mostly this
month, when closings are expected in three more countries. Proceeds
will be used mostly for debt reduction. CPC said Ajinomoto has
purchased its equity in Knorr Foods Co Ltd, a joint venture in Japan
between the two companies, with CPC to get fees for trademark and
technology use. CPC said Ajinomoto is also purchasing 50 pct interests
in CPC's wholly-owned subsidiaries in Hong Kong, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand. Reuter 

ADAMS-RUSSELL <AAR> TO ACQUIRE CABLE SYSTEMS
    WALTHAM, Mass, April 13 - 
Adams-Russell Co Inc said it agreed to acquire cable television
systems serving about 7,000 customers in New York State from Sammons
Communications Inc for undisclosed terms. Adams-Russell said the
systems operate in Wellsville, Amity, Andover, Scio, Willing, Belmont,
Milo, Jerusalem, Benton and Penn Yan, N.Y. Reuter 

MAGIC YEARS <KIDS.O> TO ACQUIRE THREE CENTERS
    WILKES-BARRES, Pa., June 18 - 
Magic Years Child Care and Learning Centers Inc said it signed a
letter of intent to acquire three profitable day care centers in south
central Pennsylvania for a total price of 350,000 dlrs. The three
privately owned centers had aggregate revenues of 474,000 dlrs in
1986, with profits of six thousand dlrs, the company said. The
transaction is scheduled to close in early July, the company said.
Reuter 

EDELMAN DETAILS BURLINGTON <BUR> OPTIONS SALE
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
A tender offer of Asher Edelman and Dominion Textile Ltd <DTX.TO> for
Burlington Idustries Inc is not affected by the investors' sale of
options to buy Burlington stock, according to an associate of Edelman.
Noting that "our tender offer is definitely in place" the aide said
the investors are prohibited by Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations from exercising options as long as a tender offer is open.
The options are due to expire at the end of June. He said the May 28
sale of options to buy 258,800 Burlington shares was thus a "non-
event." Reuter 

DAVIS MINING REVISES OFFER FOR BECOR <BCW>
    SOUTH MILWAUKEE, Wis., June 19 - 
Becor Western Inc said <Davis Mining and Manufacturing Inc> has
amended its offer for the company. Becor said the cash portion of the
offer remains unchanged at 10.45 dlrs a share but the principal amount
of debentures would increase to 3.50 dlrs from 3.00 dlrs a Becor
share. The amended offer also includes 1.50 dlrs face value of the
surviving corporation's 12.5 pct nonvoting cumulative preferred not
included in the previous offer, and reduces the amount of the
surviving corporation's common to be held by present shareholders to
55 pct from 60 pct. Becor Western the amended Davis Mining offer is
suject to confirmation of certain due diligence information. Becor
also said discussions continue with one other possible bidder which it
still has not been identified. Again, the company said it expects
discussions with the other possible investor to conclude shortly. At
that time, the board will evaluate all the then existing offers for
Becor, it added. Reuter 

U.S. VIDEO <VVCO.O>, FIRST NATIONAL IN MERGER
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
U.S. Video Vending Corp said it completed acquiring First National
Telecommunications INc from First National Entertainment Corp for
about 10 mln, or a controlling interest of U.S. Video Vending shares.
Pursuant to the transaction, Harvey Seslowsky and William Hodes
resigned from U.S. Video's board and were replaced by four members of
First National. Reuter 

SUN <SUN> TO ACQUIRE MORE OF WYOMING FIELD
    FORT WORTH, Texas, - 
<Wolverine Exploration Co> said substantially all the material aspects
of the agreement to sell its 8.95 pct working interest in the Luckey
Ditch unit in Unita County, Wyo., to Sun Co Inc have been satisfied.
Closing of the transaction is scheduled for June eight, Wolverine
said. The company agreed to sell its interest for 7,250,000 dlrs,
subject to downward adjustment for certain title and state
requirements. Sun already owns a 44 pct working interest in the unit.
Reuter 

(CORRECTED) - GOODYEAR <GT> TO SELL CELERON
    AKRON, Ohio, April 13 - 
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co said it expects to sell its Celeron Corp
oil and gas subsidiary for about two billion dlrs in about two months.
After the company's annual meeting, Rober Mercer, Goodyear's chairman
and chief executive officer, also said Goodyear expects to report a
profit of more than one dlr a share from continuing operations in the
first quarter. In the same year-ago period, Goodyear reported a loss
of 59 cents a share from continuing operations. Mercer said about
seven companies are interested in buying Celeron and they may form a
consortium to buy the unit. Reuter 

GENERAL ELECTRIC <GE> TO BUY KRAFT <KRA> UNIT
    STAMFORD, Conn., June 29 - 
General Electric Co's GE Credit Corp said it agreed to buy all of the
capital stock of Kraft Inc's wholly owned subsidiary D and K Financial
Corp. Terms of the acquisition were not disclosed. D and K, with
assets of more than one billion dlrs, is one of the leading U.S.
companies involved in the leasing of fleets of cars, according to GE
Credit. Jim Ahtes, a spokesman for GE Credit's outside public
relations firm, Manning, Selvage and Lee Inc, emphasized that the
terms of the acquisition had not yet been approved. Reuter 

HOECHST CELANESE SENDS REPORT ON NEW FACILITIES
    SOMERVILLE, N.J., April 8 - 
<Hoechst Celanese Corp> said it sent propsective customers a
confidential report describing its polyester textile fiber facilities
in North Carolina and South Carolina. The company did not disclose any
prices. The report describes the facilities in Darlington County,
S.C., and Fayetteville, N.C., the company said. The report also
decribes related manufacturing, marketing, administrative and
technical resources that could be made avialable to a buyer. Hoechst
Celanese was formed Feb 27 by the merger of Celanese Corp and American
Hoechst Corp. The merger took place after an agreement was reached
with the Federal Trade Commission that certain domestic polyester
textile fiber assets of the combined companies would be divested, it
said. Hoechst Celanese said it has the option of divesting either the
South Carolina facilities of the former American Hoechst or a package
of polyester textile fiber facilities of the former Celanese. Reuter 

OAK ONDUSTRIES <OAK> TO BUY ELECTRONICS FIRM
    SAN DIEGO, Calif., April 13 - 
Oak Industries Inc said it agreed to buy the stock of Electronic
Technologies Inc of New York for an undisclosed amount of cash.
Electronic Technologies manufactures quartz crystal components, Oak
said. It said the acquisition is part of its ongoing stategy to
restructure its core businesses through cost reduction programs and
the purchase of compatible companies. Reuter 

CBC BANCORP TO BE ACQUIRED BY UNION PLANTERS
    COOKEVILLE, Tenn., June 18 - 
<CBC Bancorp Inc> said it will be acquired by the Memphis-based Union
Planters Corp <UPCM.O> in a merger agreement. Details were not
disclosed. CBC, which is the holding company which owns Cookeville's
Citizens Bank, said it has signed an agreement which would merge CBC
with Union, which has 2.2 billion dlrs in assets. According to CBC,
Union reported shareholders equity of nearly 190 mln dlrs for the
period ending March 31. CBC said the merger will not affect Citizens
Banks' name, management, board of directors or employees. Reuter 

Sainsbury's says it taking control of Shaw's Supermarkets
for 30 dlrs a share




HAL ROACH <HRSI.O>, ROBERT HALMI <RHI> TO MERGE
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Robert Halmi Inc said it and Hal Roach Studios Inc signed a definitive
agreement to merge in a stock swap value at 115 mln dlrs, based on
October 16 closing prices. The company said the agreement calls for
the holders of common stock in Hal Roach to exchange their shares on a
one-for-one basis for shares in the combined company. It said holders
of Robert Halmi common will exchange their shares on a two-and-one-
half-for-one basis for shares in the combined company. The company
said the swap will be tax-free. The company also said <Qintex Ltd>, a
35 pct owner of Hal Roach common stock, has agreed to use the company
as the exclusive vehicle for its U.S. media and entertainment
investments, the company said. The company said Qintex's U.S.
subsidiary also agreed to supply a minimum 70 mln dlrs line of credit
to the new company, which shall be used, with Qintex approval, for
financing new HRI products. The company said that under the definitive
agreement, Qintex's U.S. division will have the right to purchase up
to 51 pct of the new company in the open market, in private
transactions or by tender offer, but will not be purchasing warrants
to bring its ownership to 51 pct of the new company. If Qintex's U.S.
subsidiary has not achieved this ownership within one year after the
completion of the merger, the subsidiary will have the right two years
thereafter to request that HRI commence a rights offering to HRI
stockholders, the company said. Regarding the potential rights
offering, Qintex's U.S. subsidiary will act as standby purchaser, the
company said. The transaction is subject to the approval of both
company's shareholders, the receipt of certain tax approvals, and the
continued employement of Robert Halmi Sr and Robert Halmi Jr, the
company said. Robert Halmi Sr, who is currently chairman and chief
executive officer of Robert Halmi Inc, will be chairman of the new
company and David Evans, current president and chief operating officer
of Hal Roach, will become chief executive, the company said. Reuter 

E.F. HUTTON LBO INC SAYS UNIT TERMINATES MERGER AGREEMENT
WITH PUROLATOR COURIER




SPECTRA-PHYSICS REJECTS CIBA-GEIGY TENDER OFFER




CCR VIDEO<CCCR.O> GETS OFFER ON TAKEOVER TALKS
    LOS ANGELES, Oct 19 - 
CCR Video Corp said it received an offer to enter into negotiations
for <Intercep Investment Corp> of Vancouver, B.C., to acquire a
controlling interest in the company through a tender offer. CCR said
the negotiations would determine the terms under which the CCR board
could support an Intercep tender offer. Additional details were not
immediately available. Reuter 

COURT UPHOLDS BANK BUILDING <BB> SELF-TENDER
    ST. LOUIS, June 1 - 
Bank Building and Equipment Corp of America said the Delaware Chancery
Court denied a stockholder's request for a preliminary injunction
against an offer for Bank Building stock made by the company and its
employee stock ownership plan and trust. Bank Building said the joint
offer is for 780,300 shares of Bank Building stock at 14 dlrs a share.
The offer is scheduled to expire midnight (EDT) on June 2. Bank
Building also said its board set July 30 as the date of the company's
annual meeting, with a record date of July six. Reuter 

TEKTRONIX <TEK> BEGINS DUTCH AUCTION TENDER
    BEAVERTON, Ore., June 19 - 
Tektronix Inc said it began its previously announced Dutch Auction
cash tender offer for up to 10 mln of its own common shares. Under the
terms of the offer the company will select a single cash purchase
price for the stock, based on the number of shares tendered, not to
exceed 40 dlrs per share or be lower than 35 dlrs per share, Tektronix
said. The company also said it does not intend to spend more than 380
mln dlrs for the shares tendered. It further stated that the tender
offer expires on July eight, unless extended. Reuter 

FIDELCOR <FICR> COMPLETES SALE OF UNIT
    PHILADELPHIA, April 8 - 
Fidelcor Inc said it has completed the sale of its Industrial Valley
Title Insurance Co subsidiary to a group of investors including the
unit's management for undisclosed terms. Industrial Valley has assets
of about 37.6 mln dlrs and was acquired last year along with IVB
Financial Corp. Reuter 

YANKEE <YNK> UNIT NOT TO SELL SUBSIDIARY
    COHASSET, Mass., April 8 - 
Yankee Cos Inc said its Eskey Inc <ESK> subsidiary has decided not to
sell its Yale E. Key unit. Further details were not disclosed. Reuter


PAXAR CORP <PAKS> MAKES ACQUISITION
    PEARL RIVER, N.Y., April 8 - 
Paxar Corp said it has acquired Thermo-Print GmbH of Lohn, West
Germany, a distributor of Paxar products, for undisclosed terms.
Reuter 

WASTE MANAGEMENT <WMX> BOARD OKAYS MODULAIRE BUY
    OAK BROOK, Ill., June 1 - 
Waste Management Inc said its directors approved a May 10 accord with
Modulaire Industries <MODX.O> under which Waste Management would
acquire Modulaire. Under the agreement, Modulaire stockholders would
receive 16 dlrs in Waste Management stock for each Modulaire share.
Modulaire has scheduled a special shareholders meeting for July 15 to
vote on the merger. Waste Management said it has received proxies from
holders of 49.6 pct of Modulaire's common stock that could be voted in
favor of the merger. The Hart-Scott-Roding waiting period on the
takeover will expire June 17. Reuter 

LASER PHOTONICS INC <LAZR.O> CLOSES SALE
    ORLANDO, Fla, April 13 - 
Laser Photonics Inc said it completed a previously announced sale of
615,385 shares, or 18 pct, of its common stock to a group of investors
for one mln dlrs. A 400,000 dlrs loan made by the investors was repaid
out of the proceeds, it said. It also said it restructured its board
to include three members designated by the investors, including Pierre
Schoenheimer, Roger Kirk and Leonard Lichter. Reuter 

ALLEGHENY INTERNATIONAL <AG> SELLS THREE UNITS
    PITTSBURGH, June 18 - 
Allegheny International Inc said it has sold its Chemetron Railway
Products Inc, True Temper Railway Appliances Inc and Allegheny Axle Co
units to newly-formed Chemetron Railway Products Inc for undisclosed
terms. It said the new company was formed by senior management of the
three railway product units and Kleinwort Benson Group of London.
Reuter 

HICKS AND HAAS GROUP GETS FINANCING FOR SPECTRADYNE ACQUISITION




TIE/COMMUNICATIONS <TIE> RENEWS AGREEMENTS
    SHELTON, Conn., June 18 - 
TIE/Communications Inc said it has renewed agreements to sell its GTE
Corp <GTE>, Bell Atlantic Corp <BEL>, NYNEX Corp <NYN> and US West Inc
<USW> for two years. The company is providing small to mid-siezed key
telephone systems to GTE and key systems, hybrids and DATA STAR PABX
systems to the others. Reuter 

NATIONAL SECURITY <NSIC.O> STAKE ACQUIRED
    ELBA, Ala., June 1 - 
National Security Insurance Co said a group of investors has acquired
226,243 common shares, or a 22.2 pct, interest, for 27.50 dlrs per
share. The company said the acquisition of the portion of the shares
over a five pct interest is subject to approval by the Alabama
Department of Insurance. It said the sellers included Atlantic
American Corp <AAME.O>, Bankers Fidelity Life Insurance Co and Georgia
Casualty Insurance Co. Reuter 

SUMITOMO BANK AIMS AT QUICK RECOVERY FROM MERGER
    TOKYO, April 8 - 
Sumitomo Bank Ltd <SUMI.T> is certain to lose its status as Japan's
most profitable bank as a result of its merger with the Heiwa Sogo
Bank, financial analysts said. Osaka-based Sumitomo, with desposits of
around 23.9 trillion yen, merged with Heiwa Sogo, a small, struggling
bank with an estimated 1.29 billion dlrs in unrecoverable loans, in
October. But despite the link-up, Sumitomo President Koh Komatsu told
Reuters he is confident his bank can quickly regain its position.
"We'll be back in position in first place within three years," Komatsu
said in an interview. He said that while the merger will initially
reduce Sumitomo's profitability and efficiency, it will vastly expand
Sumitomo's branch network in the Tokyo metropolitan area where it has
been relatively weak. But financial analysts are divided on whether
and how quickly the gamble will pay off. Some said Sumitomo may have
paid too much for Heiwa Sogo in view of the smaller bank's large
debts. Others argue the merger was more cost effective than creating a
comparable branch network from scratch. The analysts agreed the bank
was aggressive. It has expanded overseas, entered the lucrative
securities business and geared up for domestic competition, but they
questioned the wisdom of some of those moves. "They've made bold moves
to put everything in place. Now it's largely out of their hands," said
Kleinwort Benson Ltd financial analyst Simon Smithson. Among
Sumitomo's problems are limits placed on its move to enter U.S.
Securities business by taking a share in American investment bank
Goldman, Sachs and Co. Sumitomo last August agreed to pay 500 mln dlrs
for a 12.5 pct limited partnership in the bank, but for the time being
at least, the Federal Reserve Board has forbidden them to exchange
personnel, or increase the business they do with each other. "The tie-
up is widely looked on as a lame duck because the Fed was stricter
than Sumitomo expected," said one analyst. But Komatsu said the move
will pay off in time. "U.S. Regulations will change in the near future
and if so, we can do various things. We only have to wait two or three
years, not until the 21st century," Komatsu said. Komatsu is also
willing to be patient about possible routes into the securities
business at home. Article 65 of the Securities and Exchange Act,
Japan's version of the U.S. Glass-Steagall Act, separates commercial
from investment banking. But the walls between the two are crumbling
and Komatsu said he hopes further deregulation will create new
opportunities. "We need to find new business chances," Komatsu said.
"In some cases these will be securities related, in some cases trust
bank related. That's the kind of deregulation we want." Until such
changes occur, Sumitomo will focus on such domestic securities
business as profitable government bond dealing and strengthening
relations with Meiko Securities Co Ltd, in which it holds a five pct
share, Komatsu said. He said Sumitomo is cautiously optimistic about
entering the securities business here through its Swiss universal bank
subsidiary, Banca del Gottardo. The Finance Ministry is expected to
grant licences to securities subsidiaries of U.S. Commercial banks
soon, following a similar decision for subsidiaries of European
universal banks in which the parent holds a less than 50 pct. But
Komatsu is reluctant to push hard for a similar decision on a Gottardo
subsidiary. "We don't want to make waves. We expect this will be
allowed in two or three years," he said. Like other city banks,
Sumitomo is also pushing to expand lending to individuals and small
and medium businesses to replace disappearing demand from big
business, he added. The analysts said Sumitomo will have to devote a
lot of time to digesting its most recent initiatives, including the
merger with ailing Heiwa Sogo. "It's (Sumitomo) been bold in its
strategies," said Kleinwort's Smithson. "After that, it's a question
of absorbing and juggling around. It will be the next decade before we
see if the strategy is right or wrong." REUTER 

CANADA STOCKS/DOME PETROLEUM LTD <DMP>
    TORONTO, April 13 - 
Dome Petroleum Ltd shares moved higher in the U.S. and Canada after
TransCanada PipeLines Ltd <TRP> made a 4.3 billion Canadian dlr bid
for Dome and Dome said it is in talks with two other unidentified
companies. Market speculation is that the other two potential bidders
are not Canadian companies and DuPont's <DD> Conoco and Atlantic
Richfield Co <ARC> are mentioned as possibilities, Wilf Gobert of
Peters and Co Ltd said. Dome rose 1/4 to 1-1/8 on the American Stock
Exchange. TransCanada PipeLines was down 1/4 at 15-3/4 on the New York
Stock Exchange. Dome was the most active stock on the Toronto exchange
at 1.50 dlrs per share, up 37 cts. Gobert characterized the market
action in Dome as "awfully optimistic" but said investors are hoping
for a competing offer to the shareholders. TransCanada PipeLines'
offer is to Dome management, not to shareholders. However, it proposes
issuing new equity in a subsidiary that would operate Dome assets.
Current Dome shareholders would own 20 pct of the new subsidiary.
Reuter 

CCR VIDEO SAYST RECEIVED OFFER TO NEGOTIATE A TAKEOVER BY INTERCEP INVESTMENT CORP




ADVANCED TELECOMMUNICATIONS <ATEL.O> TO BUY CO
    ATLANTA, Ga., June 1 - 
Advanced Telecommunications Corp said it reached an agreement in
principle to purchase <Teltec Savings Communications Co>, a long
distance telephone service in Florida. The proposed acquisition price
is approximately 17.5 mln dlrs in cash, the company said. Reuter 

MCGRAW-HILL <MHP> DIVESTS SOUTH AFRICAN UNIT
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
McGraw-Hill Inc said it has sold its McGraw-Hill Book Co South Africa
Pty Ltd subsidiary to a local management group for an undisclosed
amount of cash and halted the sale of all products and services to
South Africa. The company said the divestiture follows a resolution of
its board in February that cited increased political and social unrest
within South Africa and the refusal of the South African government to
abolish the apartheid system. Reuter 

BILZERIAN PREPARED TO TENDER FOR PAY N'PAK <PNP>
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Investor Paul Bilzerian said if Pay N' Pak Stores Inc enters into a
merger accord with him he will immediately begin a tender offer for
7.5 mln shares for 20 dlrs per share in cash. Bilzerian told Reuters
he believes his offer is superior to a leveraged buyout proposal
disclosed in an announcement by the company this morning. The company
said it is evaluating both proposals. Bilizerian said he was
optimistic his offer will be accepted at a meeting of the board of
directors Wednesday. Officials of Pay N' Pak did were not immediately
available for comment. Bilzerian said he has a pool of 150 mln dlrs
raised by Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc available for the tender and
"we may add a bank to that." "We've submitted an agreement we're
prepared to sign," he said. Shares not accepted in Bilzerian's tender
would be exchangeable for 20 dlrs in convertible preferred stock.
Asked what would happen if the leveraged buyout group, which the
company did not identify, topped his offer between now and the board
meeting, Bilzerian said he expected an opportunity to respond. Pay N'
Pak gave no details about the buyout group, but did say the offer was
contingent on financing and on an agrreement regarding management's
equity participation. Bilzerian said it was his understanding that the
management particpation was "nominal." Pay N' Pak fell 1-1/2 to 19.
Arbitrageurs said there was disappointment that neither of the offers
topped 20 dlrs. "We were expecting an offer north of (above) 21 or 22
dlrs," said one arbitrageur. The leveraged buyout plan was for 17.50
dlrs per share in cash and 2.50 dlrs in 13-1/2 pct cumulative
preferred stock. Robert Cheadle, analyst at Montgomery Securities,
said "you have to ask yourself why no one in the industry made a bid."
Scott Drysdale, analyst at Birr Wilson Securities, said the company
has not made the best strategic moves over the years. "They have not
done the right things at the right time," he said, and as a result
earnings per share have steadily declined since 1984. The 57 cts per
share in earnings reported for the fiscal year ended in February was
lower than 1978's earnings, he said. Earnings totaled 5.7 mln dlrs on
revenue of 398.4 mln dlrs. Drysdale said Pay N' Pak has better trained
sales people than many competitors, but it competes on price even
though competitors have lower costs. The result is squeezed margins.
He noted that there have been no other publicly identified bidders
stepping forward since the company rejected an earlier Bilzerian
proposal in mid-April. Another arbitrageur said it might not be too
late for another bidder to get in the game. He speculated that someone
in the same home improvement business might be able to offer a deal
for stock that would top both the buyout proposal and Bilzerian's
plan. Reuter 

HOSPITAL CORP <HCA> BOARD AGAINST BUYOUT BID
    NASHVILLE, Tenn., April 17 - 
Hospital Corp of America said its management believes the 47 dlr per
share acquisition offer it received from Charles R. Miller, Richard E.
Ragsdale and Richard L. Scott is not in the best interest of
shareholders, and it does not plan to meet with the individuals. The
company said its board considered information on the three and their
bid, and "Given the lack of any demonstrated ability on the part of
these individuals to consummate an acquisition of this magnitude, the
board decided it was not necessary to take any action on their
proposal at this time." Hospital Corp said "The benefits of the
company's ongoing repositioning program are already being realized,
and we will continue to explore appropriate alternatives for enhancing
shareholder value." Reuter 

GALAXY <GTV> TO SELL WEST TEXAS ASSETS
    SIKESTON, Mo., June 19 - 
Galaxy Cablevision L.P. said it signed a letter of intent to sell the
assets of its cable television systems in West Texas which serve about
4,600 basic subscribers through nine cable television systems. Terms
were not disclosed and the Galaxy did not identify the buyer. The
company also said it will make its first cash dividend of 37 cents per
unit on or about August 15 to holders of record June 30. In March,
Galaxy completed a public offering of 2.2 mln units for 43 mln dlrs
and acquired the assets of 132 cable television systems for about 34
mln dlrs. Reuter 

S-K-I <SKII.O> TO BUY CALIFORA SKI AREA
    KILLINGTON, Vt., Oct 19 - 
S-K-I Ltd and <Goldmine Ski Associates Inc> said they reached an
agreement calling for S-K-I to buy Goldmine's California ski area for
approximately 10 mln dlrs. S-K-I, which owns Killlington and Mount
Snow ski resorts in Vt., said the California ski area is located in
the San Bernardino mountains. The company said it plans to invest
approximately 10 mln dlrs into the ski area in the next few years.
Reuter 

COAST SAVINGS <CSA> IN TALKS ON BUYING BANK
    LOS ANGELES, April 8 - 
Coast Savings and Loan Association said it is in talks with the
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp on the acquisition of Central
Savings and Loan Association of San Diego. Central, which operates 46
branches, has been under management guidance of the FSLIC since May
1985. Coast said the acquisition would give it an entry into the San
Joaquin Valley market besides strengthening its presence in the San
Diego, Los Angeles and Orange Counties areas. Reuter 

ALTUS BANK <ALTS.O> FAILS TO REACH AGREEMENT
    MOBILE, ALA., June 19 - 
Altus Bank said it has not been able to reach a definitive agreement
to buy Horizon Financial Corp, Horizon Funding and 2.8 billion dlrs in
loan servicing from Victor Savings and Loan Association. Altus,
formerly known as First Southern Federal Savings and Loan Association,
earlier announced the signing of a letter of intent to make the
acquisitions. Horizon Financial and Horizon Funding both are units of
Victor Savings and Loan Association. Reuter 

CRAZY EDDIE INC SAYS IT WON'T OPPOSE SLATE OF ENTERTAINMENT MARKETING




FINANCIAL SECURITY <FSSLA.O> TO BE ACQUIRED
    DELRAY BEACH, Fla, June 1 - 
Financial Security Savings and Loan Association said it signed a
letter of intent for a controlling interest to be acquired by an
investor group led by South Florida developer William Landa. Terms
were not disclosed. Reuter 

HALCYON HAS STAKE IN RESEARCH-COTTRELL <RC>
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Halcyon Investments, a New York firm, reported a 6.9 pct stake in
Research-Cottrell Inc. Alan Slifka, a partner in Halcyon, told Reuters
the shares were purchased for investment purposes but declined further
comment. On June 8, Research-Cottrell said it had entered into a
definitive agreement to be acquired by R-C Acquisitions Inc for 43
dlrs per share. Research-Cottrell closed at 44-1/4 today, unchanged
from the previous close. Reuter 

E.F. HUTTON LBO INC SAID TENDER OFFER BY PC ACQUISITTION
FOR PUROLATOR COURIER EXPIRED




ACME PRECISION <ACL> BUYOUT BID DROPPED
    DETROIT, June 2 - 
Acme Precision Products Inc said a management group has withdrawn a
six dlr per share leveraged buyout offer. Acme said the management
group dropped its bid due to continued weakness in the machine tool
industry and in Acme Precision's operating results and to the
inability of the management group to obtain modifications to terms of
its financing commitment. It said, "The effect of these factors led
the management group to conclude that the six dlr per share price was
excessive under current conditions." Reuter 

BASS-LED GROUP HAS 8.9 PCT BELL and HOWELL CO STAKE FOR
INVESTMENT




<SEMICON TOOLS INC> MAKING ACQUISITION
    NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y., June 1 - 
Semicon Tools Inc said it has signed a letter of intent to acquire a
majority interest in privately held East Coast Sales, a distributor
and fabricator of technical ceramic products and disposable clean room
materials and supplies. Terms were not disclosed. It said it expects
to acquisition to result in a substantial sales increase. Reuter 

SHAMROCK CAPITAL COMPLETES CENTRAL SOYA SALE
    BURBANK, Calif., Oct 19 - 
Shamrock Capital L.P, a limited partnership led by Shamrock Holdings
Inc, said it completed its sale of Central Soya Co Inc to Ferruzzi
Agricola Finanziaria of Italy. Under terms of the sale agreement,
which was announced on September 15, Ferruzzi acquired all the equity
in Central Soya and assumed subordinated term debt of about 195 mln
dlrs in a transaction valued at about 370 mln dlrs. Reuter 

SAINSBURY'S TAKING CONTROL OF SHAW'S SUPERMARKETS
    LONDON, June 19 - 
J Sainsbury Plc<SNB.L> said it agreed to take control of the U.S.
Shaw's Supermarkets Inc through a combination of share purchases and a
tender offer at 30 dlrs a share. Sainsbury bought about 21 pct of the
stock in 1983. It said its U.S. Subsidiary, Chene Investments Inc,
bought 2.55 mln common shares from the controlling Davis family
yesterday at 30 dlrs a share for 76.5 mln dlrs, lifting its stake to
49.4 pct. A tender offer for the outstanding shares will be launched,
also at 30 dlrs a share for a maximum further cost of 184.4 mln. The
Shaw's Board and the Davis family has agreed to accept the offer, thus
assuring Sainsbury's a total holding of 74.0 pct. The company had
allotted 20.18 mln new ordinary shares to <Warburg Securities Ltd>
which it said would be sufficient to finance about 188 mln dlrs of the
maximum 261 mln dlrs payable. Shaw's operates a chain of 49
supermarkets in Massachusetts, Maine and New Hampshire which in 1986
produced sales of 1.1 billiob dlrs and pretax profit of 31.1 mln. At
the end of 1986 it had net assets of 88 mln dlrs. Last September,
Sainsbury's increased its stake in Shaw's to 28.5 pct. In the year to
March 21, it reported a rise in pretax profit to 246.9 mln stg from
192.7 mln on sales that increased to 4.04 billion from 3.58 billion.
Sainsbury shares had fallen five pence before the announcement to 590p
from last night's close but were unmoved by news of the deal. REUTER 

CYCARE <CYCR.O> BUYS CONTROL DATA <CAD> UNIT
    PHOENIX, Ariz., June 29 - 
Cycare Systems Inc, an information processing systems company, said it
purchased the assets of Control Data Corp's MedTec unit for
undisclosed terms. MedTec is a provider of patient accounting and
scheduling systems for large scale group medical practices. Reuter 

ROTHMANS DENIES SHARE SALE SPECULATION
    LONDON, April 13 - 
<Rothmans Holdings (Tobacco) Ltd> said in a sttement there was "no
foundation" to press speculation that it would sell its stake in
Rothmans International Plc <ROT.L> to Philip Morris Inc <MO.N>, or
that it would buy Morris' stake. In the 1986 report, Rothmans
International said RHT, which is controlled by <Rupert Foundation SA>,
owned 18.25 mln ordinary and 64.37 mln B ordinary shares, or 99.9 pct
and 26.1 pct respectively. Morris owns 79.8 mln B ordinary shares, or
32.4 pct. Rothmans B shares, which firmed on the speculation to close
at 273p from 241p on Friday, eased to 245.5p at 0838 GMT. REUTER 

MADEIRA IN LETTER OF INTENT TO BE ACQUIRED
    SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, April 8 - 
<Madeira Inc> said it signed a letter of intent to be acquired by
Tradevest Inc through a stock-for-stock exchange. After completion of
the transaction, Tradevest would own 90 pct of the issued outstanding
stock of Madeira. Reuter 

OFFER FOR DOME MAY SHORT-CIRCUIT ITS DEBT TALKS
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
A 3.22 billion dlr offer for Dome Petroleum Ltd <DMP.MO> by
TransCanada Pipelines Ltd <TRP.TO> may short-circuit Dome's
restructuring plan and open the door for more takeover bids, oil
analysts said. Dome is trying to get approval for a plan to refinance
debt of more than 4.5 billion dlrs by July 1, 1987, when an interim
debt plan that allowed the Canadian oil and gas firm to defer
substantial payments to creditors will expire. Analysts said
TransCanada's bid signals Dome's debtholders that an alternative
exists to Dome's debt plan. Dome announced its plan to 56 major
creditors as well as public noteholders in March after several months
of delicate negotiations. TransCanada's proposal "amounts to a quasi
debt restructuring," oil analyst Doug Gowland of Brown Baldwin Nisker
Ltd said from Toronto. Calgary-based Dome's restructuring plan would
allow creditors to convert debt to common shares under a formula yet
to be negotiated. Payments on remaining debt would be linked to cash
flow generated by assets pledged against the debt. "The weakness of
the whole debt-refinancing proposal is that even with approval of
creditors, there is no assurance that Dome will in fact be able to
repay all of its debt obligations," said Wilf Gobert, an oil analyst
for Peters and Co Ltd in Calgary. TransCanada's announcement came as a
surprise since Dome was waiting for responses from creditors on its
proposed refinancing packages, Gobert said. The TransCanada proposal
could open the bidding for Dome since other potential buyers were
probably waiting for lenders to agree to a restructuring, he added. "I
would think that the debtholders would want to entertain any and all
offers (for Dome)," Gobert said. Dome spokesman David Annesley said in
New York that TransCanada's announcement could be seen as an attempt
to fix the bidding price for Dome and an effort to preclude other
possible buyers from making an offer. "By drawing attention to us in
our discussions, it means that others may be a little reluctant to
come forward," he said. Dome does not consider TransCanada's proposal
a formal offer because the pipeline utility's announcement breached a
confidential agreement between the two companies, he said. Dome
responded to the statement by suspending discussions with TransCanada
in order to pursue talks with other unidentified parties. However,
Dome said its management and financial advisers would evaluate all
proposals, including TransCanada's. Gowland said TransCanada's offer
is probably a fair price for the company's 36.1 mln acres of oil and
gas land holdings. However, he said not enough financial details are
known about Dome's debt restructuring to compare the value of
TransCanada's proposed offer. Reuter 

REPUBLIC AMERICAN<RAWC.O> UPS BUCKEYE<BPL> STAKE
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
Republic American Corp told the Securities and Exchange Commission it
raised its stake in Buckeye Partners L.P. to 963,200 limited
partnership units, or 8.0 pct of the total, from 744,200 units, or 6.2
pct. Republic, which is controlled by Cincinnati, Ohio, financier Carl
Lindner and his American Financial Corp, said it bought 219,000
Buckeye units between May 14 and 22 at prices ranging from 22.49 to
23.02 dlrs each, or about 5.0 mln dlrs total. Reuter 

GROUP LIFTS STAKE IN SMITH INTERNATIONAL <SII>
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
A group of firms led by Hong Kong-based Industrial Equity (Pacific)
Ltd said it increased its stake in Smith International Inc common
stock to 3,997,100 shares, or 17.5 pct of the total outstanding, from
about 14.9 pct. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the group said it bought 586,500 Smith common shares
between October 9 and 19 at 7.86 dlrs to 9.57 dlrs a share. No reason
was given for the recent purchases. Reuter 

IRWIN JACOBS SAYS HE HOLDS LESS THAN FIVE PCT OF GILLETTE




