LUKMAN SEES STABLE OIL PRICE FOR NEXT COUPLE YEARS
    STOCKHOLM, June 2 - 
The current crude oil price of between 18 and 20 dlrs a barrel will
remain stable over the next couple of years, rising only one to two
dlrs a barrel per annum to keep up with inflation, OPEC President
Rilwanu Lukman said. Lukman, who was speaking during talks with
Swedish trade officials, said the stable price depended upon output
restraint by both OPEC and non-OPEC oil producers, Swedish government
officials said. They said Lukman, who is also Nigerian oil minister,
made the remarks whilst talking about the connection between Third
World debt and industrialised nations. Crude oil output controls did
not necessarily mean higher energy bills for the world's industrial
nations, Lukman said. Although very low oil prices, such as those seen
around the beginning of the year, may appear beneficial for the
industrial countries that depend on imported energy, they would only
lead to wastage and overdependence on the fuel in the long term, he
said. This in turn would bring a swing back to extremely high prices,
he added. Sweden, heavily dependent on imported oil, suffered a major
crisis in the mid-1970s, when oil prices spiralled. REUTER 

UAE OIL MINISTER OTEIBA VISITS EGYPT - AGENCY
    CAIRO, June 29 - 
UAE Oil Minister Mana Said al-Oteiba arrived in Alexandria last night
for a visit to Egypt, the national Middle East News Agency (MENA)
said. It said Oteiba, who had just attended the OPEC ministerial
meeting in Vienna, would stay for several days but gave no details.
Non-OPEC Egypt has pledged to restrain output to support OPEC's moves
to boost oil prices. Oil Minister Abdel Hadi Kandeel last week said
Egypt plans to leave its oil production of 870,000 barrels per day
unchanged for the next five years. Egypt is able to produce up to one
mln bpd. REUTER 

AMOCO RAISES MOST CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS TODAY, WTI TO 19.00 DLRS




ECUADOR CRUDE OIL OUTPUT TO RESUME NEXT MONTH
    QUITO, April 9 - 
Ecuador is due to resume limited crude oil output on May 8 when a new
43 km pipeline to neighbouring Colombia should be finished, an energy
ministry spokesman said. Oil output was halted on March 5 by an
earthquake which damaged 50 km of the main pipeline linking jungle
oilfields at Lago Agrio to the Ecuadorean port of Balao on the
Pacific. About 13 km of the new link, capable of carrying some 50,000
barrels per day (bpd), has been built, he said. Ecuador pumped 245,000
to 250,000 bpd before the earthquake. The new link will connect Lago
Agrio to Puerto Colon in Colombia, the starting point of Columbia's
pipeline to the Pacific ocean port of Temuco. The government estimates
it will take about four more months to repair the Lago Agrio to Balao
pipeline and return output to normal levels, the spokesman said.
REUTER 

U.S. OIL PRICES STRONG AHEAD OF OPEC MEETING
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
U.S. crude oil prices are at their highest level in more than a year
ahead of next week's OPEC meeting, even though most industry analysts
do not expect any policy changes from the session. They said prices,
which have steadily climbed since the organization's accord in
December, have risen on technical factors within the market and
concerns about supplies because of the Iran-Iraq war, which could
disrupt deliveries from the Gulf. The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas
Intermediate is trading around 20.55 dlrs in the July contract on New
York Mercantile Exchange's energy futures and in the spot market. That
is its highest level since January 1986. OPEC conference president
Rilwanu Lukman, who is Nigeria's oil minister, said Friday he expects
the meeting in Vienna to be brief and calm and that OPEC's current
price and production agreement may only need a slight review. Although
most industry experts expect just a reaffirmation of the December
agreement, oil prices continue to climb due to a desire to hedge
positions in case of any surprises. Analysts expect the higher prices
to continue until soon after the OPEC meeting. At that point, barring
any increased tension in the Gulf or changes in OPEC's policies,
prices should begin easing. "OPEC will probably not do anything it
hasn't already agreed to in December because oil prices are firm,"
said John Hill, a vice president at Merrill Lynch Futures. OPEC agreed
in December to maintain official oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel and
raise the group's production ceiling to 16.6 mln barrels per day in
the third quarter and to 18.3 mln barrels in the fourth quarter. This
agreement helped send prices sharply higher, rising from 15 dlrs a
barrel in early December. Several OPEC members who are price hawks,
including Iran, Algeria and Libya, will seek a higher official price
and a reduction in output. "And if U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude
continues to trade above 20 dlrs a barrel, there is a greater chance
that OPEC will raise its official 18 dlrs price," said Nauman Barakat,
analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. But most analysts expect
the more moderate producers, such as Saudi Arabia, to block any
changes in policy. "The meeting will be a non-event with no change in
the official prices because OPEC, and in particular the Saudis, are
committed to stabilizing the market," said Rosario Ilacqua, analyst
with L.F. Rothschild. However, some analysts said OPEC may need to
hold a meeting in September to re-evaluate market conditions.
Overproduction by OPEC will become a real problem in the fourth
quarter when the quota is raised to 18.3 mln barrels a day and Iraq's
pipeline through Turkey brings another 500,000 barrels to the market
each day, said John Lichtblau, president of Petroleum Industry
Ressearch Foundation. Most expect Saudi Arabia to oppose a price
increase at this meeting but many look for an increase by year-end to
20 dlrs to offset the decline in the dollar. Oil prices are
denominated throughout the world in dollars, so as the currency
declines, producers receive less money for their oil. "The only real
production restraint in OPEC is Saudi Arabia," said Sanford Margoshes,
analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. "In the second half of the year
we expect the Saudis not to produce at their 4.1 mln barrel a day
quota and therefore act as a vehicle to stablize the market and pave
the way for a two dlrs a barrel price increase at the December 1987
meeting," he said. One uncertain factor is the course of the Iran-Iraq
war. "The wild card is the increased tensions in the Persian Gulf,"
said Frank Knuettel, analyst with Prudential-Bache Securites. Oil
tankers taking oil from Iraq and Kuwait have been regular targets for
Iranian planes. The Reagan administration is planning to put Kuwait
tankers under the protection of the U.S. flag, with naval escorts.
"Extra (oil) inventories are needed during a time of crisis like this,
and just general nervousness over an incident that could disrupt oil
supplies drives prices up," Knuettel said. Reuter 

MARATHON RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS/BBL, WTI NOW
19.00 DLRS.




SOUTH KOREA INCREASES DUTY ON CRUDE IMPORTS
    SEOUL, June 2 - 
South Korea has increased its duty on crude oil imports to 4.29 dlrs a
barrel from 3.29 dlrs, effective today, the energy ministry said. The
duty, to raise funds for special energy projects, was adjusted after
average crude import prices rose to 16.85 dlrs a barrel in April, from
16.65 dlrs in March and 13.08 dlrs in April 1986, ministry officials
said. A separate 24.5 pct import tax on crude oil is unchanged. REUTER


WEINBERGER SAYS U.S. FORCES ATTACKED IRANIAN OIL PLATFORM




OPEC DIFFERENTIALS NOT SEEN POSING MAJOR PROBLEMS
    LONDON, June 18 - 
Some OPEC states are unhappy about the prices assigned to their crude
oil but this should not pose great problems when the group reviews its
six-month-old price and output pact in Vienna next week, oil analysts
say. They said Nigeria, which holds the OPEC conference presidency,
and Qatar probably have the biggest grievances about price
differentials making some of their crudes uncompetitive. There has
also been speculation by Japanese traders that OPEC might want to mark
up prices of high-sulphur heavy crudes, to correspond with greater
demand and higher fuel oil prices. But most experts agree that a major
overhaul of price differentials is unlikely, so as to avoid giving the
market signals of a dent in OPEC's new unity. "All OPEC members can
make a good case for changing differentials," said one analyst with a
major oil company. "But at the end of the day, the attitude is going
to be "leave well alone' and little or nothing is likely to be
altered." Iran, Libya and Saudi Arabia are among those who also saw
sales problems earlier this year, traders say. But diminished customer
resistance to fixed prices and, in some cases, marketing incentives
have helped their sales. Some producers can sell uncompetitively
priced crudes by means of discounts, processing deals or selling them
alongside better priced grades in a "package." Many OPEC crudes are
seen to be reasonably priced, at least for some part of the year. But
many experts say OPEC should change prices quarterly or monthly to
match seasonal demand for fuel oil-rich heavy crudes and gasoline-rich
lighter grades. At its last meeting in December, OPEC agreed to
reintroduce fixed prices from February 1 around an 18 dlr per barrel
reference point. Official prices had been effectively dropped in 1985
when members offered discounts to attract customers. OPEC also decided
to limit first-half 1987 output to 15.8 mln bpd and proposed ceilings
of 16.6 mln for the third quarter and 18.3 mln for the fourth.
Analysts expect it will now extend or raise slightly the current
ceiling for the coming months. Spot market and netback values for some
crudes do not mirror official prices, but OPEC will probably keep the
18 dlr target and at most make minimal changes to differentials,
analysts say. The 18 dlr figure is based on a basket of six OPEC and
one non-OPEC crudes. OPEC assigned prices to its other key export
crudes, with a 2.65 dlr gap between the heaviest and lightest. Extra
heavy crudes were among those left out. Industry estimates vary on the
proportion of OPEC oil exports actually sold at official prices.
Several experts say only one-quarter to one-third of the total in fact
sells at official prices, with some of the rest included in processing
or barter deals or sold in the form of refined products. Problems with
the new structure appeared earlier this year, when some producers'
output fell due to customer reluctance to pay the new prices. Nigeria
especially found its gasoline-rich Bonny Light crude -- now OPEC's
highest priced grade at 18.92 dlrs a barrel -- was uncompetitive on
the spot market against Britain's Brent. In February and March,
Nigeria's production shrank below its 1.238 mln bpd OPEC quota. Spot
prices have since revived, due partly to seasonal demand for gasoline,
and its output has risen. Some experts feel Bonny Light is still
overvalued and say its price should be cut by between 50 cts to one
dlr a barrel. But Mehdi Varzi, chief oil analyst with London's
Kleinwort Grieveson Securities, doubts Nigeria will actively push the
differentials question in Vienna. "It would not look good for OPEC
unity if Nigeria, which holds the presidency, raised the issue," he
said. REUTER 

SRI LANKA PLANS TO RENEW ABU DHABI OIL CONTRACT
    COLOMBO, June 19 - 
Ceylon Petroleum Corp (CPC) has decided to renew its one-year contract
with Abu Dhabi for 480,000 tonnes of Upper Zakum crude oil, CPC
officials told Reuters. They said CPC made the recommendation to the
cabinet and is now awaiting its approval. CPC's one-year contract with
Abu Dhabi expired on May 31 this year and it wants the renewed
contract to begin on June 1 at the government selling price. Delivery
will be determined in the course of the year. Last year, shipments
were in three parcels of 120,000 tonnes each and four of 30,000 tonnes
each. CPC officials also said the company agreed with the Egyptian
government for the supply of 240,000 tonnes of Gulf of Suez crude for
delivery in two shipments this year at the government selling price.
Last year, CPC bought 120,000 tonnes Gulf of Suez through C.Itoh.
Officials said plans to buy 240,000 tonnes of Basra Light from Iraq
have not been finalised yet because of several constraints. CPC said
it could not accept 120,000 tonne parcels and proposed to lift 30,000
tonnes in eight shipments. Iraq National Oil Co (INOC) told CPC a Red
Sea port where lifting was to take place could not accept small ships.
INOC then proposed to deliver eight shipments of 30,000 tonnes each.
CPC said INOC planned to ship the oil to an Indian port for delivery
of Indian requirements, later going to Colombo to offload CPC's needs,
but CPC considered this unsuitable. CPC said it had not received a
reply from INOC since December. Sri Lanka imports all its annual needs
of 1.7 mln tonnes. This year it plans to buy 400,000 tonnes on the
spot market compared with about 1.3 mln tonnes last year. REUTER 

UNOCAL<UCL> SCRAPS FLUIDIZED BED BOILER PROJECT
    LOS ANGELES, June 19 - 
Unocal Corp said it told the U.S. Treasury Department that it will not
include fluidized bed combustion technology, a method for the more
efficient burning of solids, at its Parachute Creek oil shale project
in Colorado due to high costs. Under a 1985 agreement with the now-
defunct U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp, Unocal said it would study using
the technology at the oil shale plant. In return the company would
have been eligible for 500 mln dlrs in loan gaurantees and price
supports from the U.S. Treasury Department, which took over the
contract from the Synthetic Fuels Corp, Unocal said. Unocal said its
studies showed the cost for the fluidized bed combustion facility
would have exceeded 352 mln dlrs, compared with an original estimate
of 260 mln dlrs. The fluidized bed facility would have provided heat
and electricity for the oil shale project, Unocal said. Last year's
fall in oil prices and the loss of investment tax credit under the Tax
Reform Act made the project uneconomical even with government price
supports and loan guarantees, Unocal said. The Parachute Creek oil
shale plant produces about 4,000 to 5,000 barrels per day of crude
shale oil, Unocal said. Reuter 

TOTAL PETROLEUM <TPN> SHUTS TEXAS PIPELINES
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Total Petroleum NA <TPN> shut down several small crude oil pipelines
operating near the Texas/Oklahoma border last Friday as a precaution
against damage from local flooding, according to Gary Zollinger,
manager of operations. Total shut a 12-inch line that runs across the
Ouachita River from Wynnewood to Ardmore with a capacity of 62,000 bpd
as well as several smaller pipelines a few inches wide with capacities
of several thousand bpd or less, Zollinger said. The Basin Pipeline, a
major pipeline running 300,000 bpd, run by a consortium of other oil
companies, was closed today. One other small pipeline that Total also
closed has a capacity of 3,000 to 4,000 bpd and crosses the Red River
in Fargo, Texas, Zollinger said. He said the closed pipelines run
under river water and could be damaged as the flooded rivers erode the
river banks and expose the piping. Zollinger said Total is waiting for
the river waters to recede before they reactivate the pipelines.
Reuter 

SHIPPING SOURCES SAY UNIDENTIFIED JETS RAID IRANIAN OIL PLATFORMS IN SOUTHERN GULF




SAUDI ARABIA WILL NOT AGREE "MAD" OIL PRICE RISE
    RIYADH, June 2 - 
Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Hisham Nazer said Riyadh would not agree
to a cut in oil prices and would not accept a "mad" increase that
would drive consumers away. He told al-Riyadh newspaper, "Saudi Arabia
follows a balanced petroleum policy. It does not approve of a decrease
in prices from current levels and it also does not accept a mad
increase that would drive consumers away and make them try and find
alternative sources (for energy)." OPEC agreed last December to cut
production after world prices hit new lows in 1986. They agreed on a
pricing system aimed to stabilise the market around 18 dlrs a barrel.
OPEC is scheduled to meet in Vienna on June 25, where it will review
its current oil price and production policy. Saudi Arabia's King Fahd
said last month that he wanted oil prices to remain stable for the
next two years. Saudi Arabia is the architect of the current pricing
and production pact, which is backed by Kuwait and the UAE. The
current pact set a production ceiling for first half 1987 of 15.8 mln
bpd, and implemented fixed prices based on an 18 dlrs a barrel
average. REUTER 

PEMEX OFFICIAL SAYS OPEC OUTPUT CRITICAL TO PRICE
    TOKYO, June 1 - 
Crude oil prices could remain around 18 dlrs a barrel until the end of
the year, but OPEC's decision on output at its next meeting would be
the critical factor, an official of Mexico's state oil company,
Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex), told a group of Japanese businessmen.
Adrian Lajous, Pemex' executive vice president of international trade,
said current OPEC output already appeared to be very near the 16.6 mln
barrel per day level it set itself for the third quarter. "Production
is surging ahead of what was originally planned, while demand is
growing more slowly than envisaged a few months ago," he said. He said
OPEC had to look very carefully at what level of production in the
third quarter would effectively sustain the 18 dlrs price, and that an
increase to what had originally been envisaged might soften price
levels. The 13-member cartel is scheduled to meet on June 25 in Vienna
to review its December accord on prices and output. "I hope OPEC will
follow a very conservative attitude in terms of volume decisions,"
Lajous said. A repetition of what happened last year, when OPEC
boosted output and sent oil prices tumbling down below 10 dlrs, is
always there as a possibility, he said. "I hope never again to go
through the trauma of 1986. I expect other oil exporters have learned
their lessons and discipline will be maintained," he said. Lajous said
there was still excess supply and as long as this remains there will
be a tendency to instability in oil markets, but prices should remain
around 18 to 19 dlrs during 1987 if output remains under control. He
said Saudi King Fahd's remarks last month, that increased production
was not so important as long as incomes would not be affected by the
output, were "very relevant and welcome from such a powerful
producer." REUTER 

KUWAITI DAILY SAYS OPEC CREDIBILITY AT STAKE
    KUWAIT, April 13 - 
OPEC's credibility faces fresh scrutiny in coming weeks amid signs of
a significant rise in supplies of oil to international oil markets,
the Kuwait daily al-Qabas said. In an article headlined, "Gulf oil
sources say Middle East production up 1.4 mln bpd," it warned OPEC's
official prices could face fresh pressure from international oil
companies seeking cheaper supplies. It did not say whether only OPEC
or both OPEC and other producers were behind the reported rise in
Mideast output. Nor did it specify if the sources were official or
other contacts. "The sources said the credibility of OPEC would come
under fresh scrutiny from today (Monday), with activity in the
European and American markets," the daily said. The sources were
quoted as saying that after OPEC had in March demonstrated its
commitment to quota agreements, some members had raised output last
week. It gave no details. "Dealers in oil markets were now waiting to
see if Opec was able to control production, or whether the days of
cheating and producing over quotas has begun anew," it said. The
sources warned that "maybe the (price of a) barrel of oil will fall
below 18, perhaps 17.80 dlrs this week or next if there is no control
on supplies," it said. "The sources believed a return of oil below 18
dlrs a barrel may open the doors for international oil companies to
pressure OPEC over contract prices, similar to the struggle last
March," it said, apparently referring to resistance by buyers to lift
from Qatar unless it gave price discounts. "More than one official has
warned OPEC would find its solidarity under scrutiny by the end of
April or start of May," it said, noting demand usually fell with the
onset of summer. Reuter 

SOUTH YEMEN PLANS OIL EXPORT PIPELINE - MEES
    NICOSIA, Oct 19 - 
South Yemen is planning a major oil pipeline system to be completed in
18-months time to start exports at a initial rate of 100,000 barrels
per day, (bpd) the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES) said. MEES said
government approval for the export pipeline followed a visit to Aden
by a high ranking delegation from the Soviet Union, which will help
South Yemen construct the line The engineering studies for the
pipeline are nearly finished and construction is expected to start
early next year, the industry newsletter said. The pipeline will run
about 170-200 kms (105-125 miles) from Shabwa oilfields to a coastal
terminal at Bir 'Ali on the Gulf of Aden, MEES said. MEES said the
Soviet firm Technoexport, which is developing oilfileds for South
Yemen, has substantially increased its initial reserve estimates and
recommended a pipeline with an eventual 500,000 bpd capacity. The
discovery of commercial quaotities of oil was confirmed by
Technoexport earlier this year in three structures in the Shabwa
region in the Northwestern part of the country, 200 kms east of North
Yemen's Alif oilfield. REUTER 

AUSTRALIAN CRUDE OUTPUT FALLS IN FIRST NINE MONTHS
    CANBERRA, June 18 - 
Australian crude oil and condensate output fell 7.6 pct to 23,480
megalitres, or about 147 mln barrels, in the first nine months of
fiscal 1986/87 ending June 30, the Department of Resources and Energy
said. The decline in production in the nine months to end-March
reflected mainly a sharp dip early in the fiscal year, when low oil
prices and high marginal excise rates led to a reduction of output
from Bass Strait, department figures in its Major Energy Statistics
publication show. A megalitre is 6,290 barrels. REUTER 

VENEZUELA SEES FLAT OIL PRICE DESPITE U.S. ATTACK
    CARACAS, Oct 19 - 
World oil prices would remain stable despite the U.S. Attack against
Iranian oil platforms and growing tension in the Gulf, Venezuelan
Energy Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said on Monday. He described
the situation as "extremely tense," but said Gulf military activity
would not significantly affect prices because supply and demand were
roughly equal. Demand for OPEC crude in the final quarter of 1987 was
18.5 mln barrels per day (bpd) and the group's members were now
pumping above 18 mln bpd, he told a news conference. Hernandez
Grisanti said the supply/demand balance was precarious and prices were
in danger of falling from their current average of about 18 dlrs per
barrel if overproduction continued. Three or four members of the
13-nation Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries were
"overproducing in an exaggerated manner" above their assigned quotas,
he said. OPEC's overall ceiling is 16.6 mln bpd. REUTER 

KUWAITI DAILY SAYS OPEC CREDIBILITY AT STAKE
    KUWAIT, April 13 - 
OPEC's credibility faces fresh scrutiny in coming weeks amid signs of
a significant rise in supplies of oil to international oil markets,
the Kuwait daily al-Qabas said. In an article headlined "Gulf oil
sources say Middle East production up 1.4 mln bpd" and "Markets
witness new surplus amid whispers of return to cheating days," it
warned OPEC's official prices could face fresh pressure from
international oil companies seeking cheaper supplies. It did not say
whether only OPEC or Opec and other producers were behind the reported
rise in Mideast output. Nor did it specify if the sources were
official or other contacts. "The sources said the credibility of OPEC
would come under fresh scrutiny from Monday, with activity in the
European and American markets," it said. The sources were quoted as
saying that after Opec had in March demonstrated its commitment to
quota agreements, some members had raised output last week. It gave no
details. "Dealers in oil markets were now waiting to see if Opec was
able to control production, or whether the days of cheating and
producing over quotas has begun anew," it reported. "The sources
warned that maybe the (price of a) barrel of oil will fall below 18,
perhaps 17.80 dlrs this week or next if there is no control on
supplies. "The sources believed a return of oil below 18 dlrs a barrel
may open the doors for international oil companies to pressure Opec
over contract prices, similar to the struggle last March," it said,
apparently referring to resistance by buyers to lift from Qatar unless
it gave price discounts. "More than one official has warned Opec would
find its solidarity under scrutiny by the end of April or start of
May," it said, noting demand usually fell with the onset of summer.
Reuter 

TEXACO FILING ADDS UNCERTAINTY IN OIL MARKET
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
U.S. oil traders said Texaco Inc's filing for protection under the
Chapter 11 bankruptcy code is adding uncertainty to an already
skittish oil market, but opinions are divided on the impact to the
market. "The filing is holding up wet barrel trading today," said one
trader. "Everyone is talking about it, assessing their company's
situations in relation to Texaco," he added. Some traders said
companies that deal with Texaco are concerned about whether they will
receive payment or supplies under the bankruptcy filing. However,
others were less worried. "The first paid will be the trading
community and those connected with Texaco in the shipping industry,"
one New York trader said. "If Texaco doesn't get crude supplies it
can't run its refineries, so its other assets would not be worth
anything," he added. Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of
the U.S. bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlement
with Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegally
interferring with Pennzoil's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co.
However, others were less worried. "The first paid will be the trading
community and those connected with Texaco in the shipping industry,"
one New York trader said. "If Texaco doesn't get crude supplies it
can't run its refineries, so its other assets would not be worth
anything," he added. Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of
the U.S. bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlement
with Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegally
interferring with Pennzoil's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co. "There
is some reluctance to trade with Texaco but no great change," said
another trader, adding that traders are tending toward prudence in
their dealings with the company. Traders are assessing whether to
require cash prepayment or letters of credit, or to continue to trade
as usual with Texaco on an open line basis, he said. Another trader,
however, described today's activity as business as usual, adding that
traders feel more secure because no liens can be put on Texaco's
assets while it is in bankruptcy. Traders said there was no apparent
effect of the Texaco filing on crude futures trading although they
said the exchange might lower Texaco's position limit and require
higher margins for Texaco's trades. New York Mercantile Exchange
President Rosemary McFadden declined to comment on Texaco's futures
trading, saying that is is proprietary information. McFadden did say,
however, that as a matter of procedure, it is possible the exchange
can lower allowable position limits or increase margin requirements
for companies that are in financial trouble. Reuter 

FAR EAST TRADERS EXPECT 20 DLR OIL IN JANUARY
    TOKYO, June 29 - 
OPEC's agreement to limit output to 16.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) for
the rest of the year should boost spot prices and enable the group to
raise its official reference price to 20 dlrs a barrel in January from
the current 18 dlrs, Far East oil industry sources said.
"Fundamentally, the market situation is bullish and the official price
will be 20 dlrs in January," a Japanese refiner said. The sources said
that in spite of over-production by OPEC members such as Iraq, the
United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Qatar, demand should exceed supply by
the fourth quarter. Spot oil prices surged on Friday in late U.S.
Trading as the market anticipated an OPEC agreement on second-half
1987 output. In early Tokyo trade, levels were firm at 17.30 dlrs for
Mideast Dubai cargoes loading next month and 19.00 dlrs for U.K.
Brent, traders said. They said they expect more foreign crudes to be
sucked into the U.S. Market as the benchmark crude West Texas
Intermediate (WTI) trades at around 20.30 dlrs. "With WTI at 20, 21 or
22 dlrs, U.S. Refiners will import Mideast and Far East crudes and
this will strengthen those grades further," said a Japanese oil
trader. Some Tokyo traders were cautious about whether thU spot market
has further upward potential in the short term, having risen strongly
on the OPEC news on Friday. "You could certainly argue that if New
York rose on that basis, there's no reason for prices to go up again
today," said one international oil trader in Tokyo. "But I think if
there's any sign of a dip, it will be bought back up again pretty
quickly," he added. One oil industry analyst concurred, "There is no
reason to expect a weak market from now on." He said he expected OPEC
to raise prices to 20 dlrs when it meets on December 9. Oil sources
said spot prices are unlikely to surge strongly in the next few months
due to cheating by some OPEC members and the likelihood that Saudi
Arabia will act as swing producer to maintain steady prices. Iraq is
currently producing around two mln barrels per day compared to its
second-half quota of 1.54 mln, they said. Its export capability will
rise to 2.5 mln bpd when a new pipeline through Turkey, comes onstream
in or around September. Qatar is said to be achieving sales of around
350,000 bpd, against its OPEC-assigned quota of 299,000, by
discounting up to 20 cents a barrel from official prices, the sources
said. Iran, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait are also cheating on
the OPEC agreement with over-production and effective price discounts
through counter-purchases, industry sources said. But they mostly
agreed that Saudi Arabia will unofficially act as swing producer,
cutting production to compensate for higher output by other members or
boosting output if spot prices rise too high too fast. Saudi Arabia
has a floating oil stockpile of 40 to 50 mln barrels. "Saudi Arabia
wants oil price stability so the stockpile may be utilized to cool
down the market if it rises too much," an oil industry analyst said.
REUTER 

SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES
    New York, Oct 19 - 
Citgo Petroleum Corp, a subsidiary of Southland Corp, said it raised
the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil by 50 cts a
barrel, effective Oct 16 The increase brings Citgo's postings for the
West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 19.00
dlrs/barrel, while Light Louisiana SWeet is now priced at 19.35 dlrs.
Citgo last changed it crude oil postings on Sept 9. Reuter 

PHILLIPS <P> RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
Phillips Petroleum Corp said it raised the contract price it will pay
for all grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective Oct 16. The
increase brings the company's postings for the West Texas Intermediate
and West Texas Sour grades to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. Phillips last
changed it crude oil postings on Sept 9. Reuter 

EXTRACTS FROM OPEC COMMUNIQUE
    VIENNA, June 29 - 
Following are extracts from the communique issued at the conclusion of
the OPEC conference here. "The conference expressed satisfaction about
the positive results of the agreement signed in December, 1986, by
which OPEC re-established the system of fixed price at a level of 18
dlrs per barrel supported by OPEC production ceilings distributed into
national production levels. "The conference noted that all market
indicators, including spot prices in the market and netback values of
all OPEC crudes, have been firming up significantly, thus
consolidating the OPEC price structure as defined by the agreement."
"The conference examined the supply/demand outlook for the second half
of the year and decided that in order to secure continued firm prices
in the market, OPEC production during the fourth quarter of 1987 will
be equal to that of the third quarter, I.E. 16.6 mln barrels per day
(bpd), distributed into the same national production levels as were
defined by the above-mentioned agreement for that quarter."
"Furthermore, the conference decided to establish a committee of five
heads of delegation to monitor the price evolution in the market in
relation to the OPEC official prices in order to secure price
stability around the opec price structure. "Should there be any
significant change in market prices, the committee would immediately
call for an extraordinary meeting of the conference with a view to
deciding on the necessary OPEC production levels during the second
half of the year, which would secure the desired market stability."
"The conference reiterated the necessity of member countries' strict
adherence to the agreement signed in December 1986, both in terms of
official price, and national production, levels. "For this purpose,
the conference decided to establish a committee of three heads of
delegation to undertake visits to member countries in order to
motivate them to comply with the terms of the agreement." "Moreover,
the conference stressed the necessity of the cooperation of the oil-
producing exporting countries outside OPEC as an essential
prerequisite for a lasting market stability. The conference,
therefore, decided to reinstate the group of five heads of delegation
established by the 77th (extraordinary) meeting of the conference in
April, 1986 to undertake the necessary contacts with those countries.
"The conference observed the continued fall in the value of the U.S.
Dollar and agreed that the matter should be studied and reported to
the next meeting of the conference." "The conference discussed the
appointment of the secretary general and decided to discuss the matter
again in its next ordinary meeting. "The conference extended the term
of office of Fadhil al-Chalabi as deputy secretary general for a
period of one year from October 7, 1987. "The next ordinary meeting of
the conference will be convened in Vienna on December 9, 1987." REUTER






IRAN, SOVIETS TO HOLD TALKS ON OIL EXCHANGE DEAL
    MOSCOW, Oct 20 - 
Iran and the Soviet Union have provisionally agreed to hold talks on a
possible exchange of Iranian crude oil for finished Soviet oil
products, an official spokesman said Tuesday. Gennady Gerasimov, chief
of the Soviet Foreign Ministry's Information Directorate, told
reporters the agreement had been reached during a visit to Moscow last
week by Iran's Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh. Gerasimov said no
date had been set for the talks, which would also study the
possibility of Soviet technical assistance for Iran's oil industry.
REUTER 

COLOMBIAN GROUP SUSPENDS BOMBINGS OF PIPELINES
    BOGOTA, June 2 - 
A Colombian group announced the suspension of its bombings of oil
pipelines pending the government's levy of a social tax on foreign
petroleum companies and an 800 mln dlrs fine on the Occidental
Petroleum Corp <OXY>. There was no indication the government would
meet the conditions demanded by the leftist National Liberation Army
(ELN). According to the state oil firm, ECOPETROL, the ELN carried out
72 attacks on petroleum pipelines between 1984 and 1986. The assaults,
the most recent launched two months ago, have caused an estimated
total of 50 mln dlrs in damage. In a communique, the ELN said it would
demand a tax of one dollar per barrel of crude oil pumped by foreign
firms as a condition for maintaining its suspension of the assaults.
Foreign oil firms pump an average of 225,083 barrels per day in
Colombia. Colombian tax authorities are investigating Occidental, a
U.S.-owned firm, for alleged tax evasion. If the charges are proven,
the firm could face a fine of up to 800 mln dlrs. The ELN demands the
government charge the penalty. Reuter 

U.S. MILITARY LEADER PREDICTS IRANIAN RESPONSE
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
William Crowe, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, predicted
Iran will retaliate for the U.S. strike against its oil platform
though he said Iranian options were limited. "They will be determined.
They will not be easily deterred, and let me stress for you that our
commitment there is not going to be risk free or casualty free." He
said the most likely Iranian response would involve terrorism or the
laying of mines. "They obviously will look for ways that are probably
more in line with the 'silent hand' than what they have tried thus
far," Crowe told an American Stock Exchange conference. He declined
comment on a reporter's query whether he favored a stronger move
against Iran than that ordered by the president. "We carried out the
operation that was decided upon and we carried it out with enthusiasm
and I think it was professionally and well done," Crowe said. Reuter 

TEXACO <TX> SAYS SOME OIL FLOWS RE-ESTABLISHED
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
Texaco Inc has re-established some key oil supply lines following
yesterday's court filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
bankrupcty code, said Elton Yates, Texaco's coordinator of worldwide
operations. "Several companies say they are willing to start trading,"
Yates told Reuters in an interview. The company last week had stated
that a number of domestic and international oil suppliers were
demanding cash for oil shipments, and in some cases, had cut supplies
altogether. Banks had also cut credit lines, it said in court filings.
Manufacturers Hanover Corp <MHC> and other banks told Texaco it would
cut off a one billion dlr credit line, Texaco said in the court
filing. Chase Manhattan Corp <CMB> and J.P. Morgan Co's <JPM> Morgan
Guaranty Trust Co asked for deposits to cover transactions, it said.
The severe conditions with suppliers and creditors arose from an
unfavorable ruling last Monday by the U.S. Supreme Court in Texaco's
ongoing dispute with Pennzoil Co <PZL> over the acquisition of Getty
Oil Co in 1984. The High Court said Texas Courts must consider
Texaco's plea to cut its 10.3 billion dlr bond while appealing the
case. "Most of the suppliers stayed with us as long as they could,"
Elton said. But following Monday's Supreme Court ruling, Texaco's
suppliers began demanding cash and halting supplies. "It wasn't until
last Wednesday that it turned into an avalanche," he said. "Supplies
were cut to the point where we could not run the system at anywhere
near capacity." He said less than half of Texaco's oil supplies had
been in jeapordy, but the cut off would have produced severe shortages
by mid-May. Now the situation appears much less severe, Elton said. It
said that Sonatrach, the Algerian national oil company, canceled
future deliveries of crude oil and natural gas, Occidental Petroleum
Co <OXY> demanded cash for crude, and Atlantic Richfield Co <ARC>
asked for special safeguards. The company also said British Petroleum
Co PLC <BP> last week refused to accept an order for fuel oil. But
Yates today said, "a big U.K. company has in fact said they would go
on supplying. They had cancelled last week." He declined to identify
the company. <Petroleos de Venezuela S.A.>, the Venezuelan state oil
company that supplies a large portion of Texaco's oil, also halted
shipments two weeks ago, Yates said. But he added that Texaco expected
to meet with the Venezuelans later today in an attempt to reestablish
that key supply line. Talks were also expected to take place with the
Algerians, he added. Bankruptcy specialists said it was likely
Texaco's chapter 11 filing would allow the company to secure its
credit lines and oil supplies that are key to the company's business.
"It will be business as usual for Texaco," said Martin Klein, a
bankruptcy attorney at the New York law firm Dreyer and Traub.
"Creditors are a nervous bunch of people," he said. "But when the dust
settles they will reevaluate the situation and will likely extend
credit to the chapter 11 company." But other officials at Texaco were
not immediately available to say whether discussions were being held
with its banks, or whether credit lines had been reestablished. Reuter


PHILLIPS PETROLEUM <P> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Phillips Petroleum Co said it raised its crude oil posted prices for
West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour by 50 cts a barrel,
effective June 17. The company said the new posted price for WTI and
WTS is 19 dlrs a barrel. The increase is in reaction to Sun Co raising
postings similarly yesterday. Reuter 

ECUADOR TO USE COLOMBIA OIL LINK FOR FIVE YEARS
    BOGOTA, April 23 - 
Ecuador will use a new pipeline link with Colombia to export crude oil
for the next five years, Colombian mines and energy minister Guillermo
Perry said. The link will be inaugurated on May 8. It was built to
allow Ecuador to resume exports of crude oil halted on March 5 by
earthquake damage to its Lago Agrio to Balao pipeline, Once that
pipeline is repaired, Ecuador will exceed its OPEC quota in order to
offset lost income and pay debts contracted with Venezuela and Nigeria
since the quake, Ecuador mines and energy minister Javier Espinosa
said. The two ministers were speaking at a news conference after
signing an agreement for joint oil exploration and exploitation of the
jungle border zone between the two nations. Drilling will begin in
September. "The agreement to transport Ecuadorean crude oil is not
only for this emergency period but for the next five years, with
possibility of an extension. Between 20,000 and 50,000 barrels per day
(bpd) will be pumped along it," Perry said. Espinosa said Ecuador
planned to pump 35 mln barrels through the link in the next five
years, at a cost of 75 cents per barrel during the first year. The
43-km link, with a maximum capacity of 50,000 bpd, will run from Lago
Agrio, the centre of of Ecuador's jungle oilfields, to an existing
Colombian pipeline that runs to the Pacific port of Tumaco. Espinosa
said the 32-km stretch of the link built on the Ecuadorean side cost
10.5 mln dlrs. Perry gave no figures for Colombia's 11 km segment but
said it was "insignificant compared with what we are going to earn."
OPEC member Ecuador was pumping around 250,000 bpd before the quake.
Lost exports of 185,000 bpd are costing it 90 mln dlrs per month,
Espinosa said. REUTER 

SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE 50 CTS/BBL
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Southland Corp's subsidiary Citgo Petroleum said it raised its posted
prices for crude oil across the board by 50 cts a barrel, effective
June 17. Citgo said its new posting for West Texas Intermediate and
West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel. Light Louisiana Sweet is now
posted at 19.35, the company said. Reuter 

US RULED OUT ATTACK ON IRANIAN SILKWORMS
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
U.S. military planners ruled out Iran's Silkworm missiles as a target
in the retaliatory attack mounted on Monday for fear of being drawn
more deeply into the Iran-Iraq war, defense and Middle East experts
said. U.S. naval forces destroyed an offshore oil platform and raided
another in what the administration called a "measured and appropriate
response" to an Iranian Silkworm missile attack last Friday on a
U.S.-flagged tanker in Kuwaiti waters. Private analysts generally
agreed that going after the rig rather than an onshore economic or
military target such as Silkworm launch sites reflected a careful bid
by Washington to limit the political, military and diplomatic fallout
both at home and in the Gulf. "It simply demonstrated the United
States will take military action when they (Iran) take military
action," Norman Polmar, a defense analyst and author, said. He said
hitting the platforms had spared Iran the embarrassment of casualties
on its own soil, possibly avoiding an escalating spiral of attack and
counterattack. In addition, it minimized the risk to U.S. forces and
the potential embarrassment of any losses, including aircraft that
could have been shot down had they taken part in an attack. Anthony
Cordesman, author of a new book on the Iran-Iraq war, said the United
States apparently chose a limited target to keep alive the possibility
that U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar might still
persuade Iran to accept a Security Council call for a ceasefire. "We
want the U.N. peace initiative to work if there's any chance at all,"
he said, adding that the action made it clear tougher steps would
follow if Iran to attack Gulf shipping. In targeting an oil rig --
albeit one said by the Pentagon to have been turned into a military
command post -- Washington also sent a message that it might be
willing to attack Iran's economic lifeline. Pentagon officials said
the platform had been used as a base for Iranian raids against
shipping in the lower Gulf. "We have chosen a military target, but we
also have shown Iran that we are willing to interfere with its oil-
exporting capabilities," Cordesman said. He predicted the United
States would respond to any future major Iranian challenges by hitting
Iran's naval base at Bandar Abbas on the Straits of Hormuz, followed
by mining the approaches to Iran's oil export terminal on Kharg
Island. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Monday the United
States did not seek further confrontation with Iran, "but we will be
prepared to meet any escalation of military action by Iran with
stronger countermeasures." Reuter 

UNION PACIFIC <UNP> RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Union Pacific Resources, formerly Champlin Petroleum, said it raised
posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective yesterday.
The price increase brings West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark
grade, to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The posted price increase follows a
similar move by several other oil companies. Sun Co was the first to
raise crude oil postings yesterday afternoon and today many other
companies are following. The last price increase made by oil companies
was around May 22. Reuter 

OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF SALE POSTPONED
    ANCHORAGE, Oct 20 - 
Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas lease sale number 97 in the
Beaufort Sea, tentatively schedualed for January 1988 has been
postponed, the U.S. Department of Interior said. Alan Powers, chief of
the Minerals Maanagement Service for the department, said the delay is
to have more time to study the effects of drilling noise on whale
migrations. Powers said the state has asked for additional noise data
for the sale area off Alaska's North Slope. A new date has not been
set, but it will likely be no sooner than next March, Powers said.
Some 3,930 blocks encompassing about 21 mln acres are involved in the
proposed sale. The area is between three and 160 miles off the
northern coast of Alaska in the Artic Ocean between the Canadian
border and 162 degrees west longitude. Reuter 

PETRO-CANADA RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 32 CTS CANADIAN/BBL.
SWEET CRUDE AT 25.60 DLRS CANADIAN/BBL.




STATOIL AWARDS VESLEFRIKK OIL FIELD CONTRACTS
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
Norwegian state oil company Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap (Statoil)
signed contracts worth a total of 1.5 billion Norwegian crowns in
connection with the development of the Veslefrikk oil field, Statoil
said. Moss Rosenberg Verft of Stavanger has been awarded a contract to
convert the the drilling platform West Vision to a floating production
platform. The work is to be completed in the summer of 1989. Aker
Verdal has been awarded a contract for the engineering, purchasing and
construction of the steel jacket for the wellhead platform, also to be
completed in 1989, Statoil said. Reuter 

NORWAY BOOSTS OIL OUTPUT BY 22 PCT IN SEPTEMBER
    OSLO, Oct 20 - 
Norway's September oil output rose by 22.2 pct to 1.07 mln barrels per
day (bpd) from 830,492 bpd in August, according to a Reuter survey of
firms operating here. Operators said the sharp rise reflected higher
output at several of Norway's biggest fields and resumed production at
fields shut down for 27 days in August for the Ekofisk field rescue
project. Industry analysts said the increase did not exceed Norway's
voluntary move to curb by 7.5 pct planned growth in its oil output, a
move designed to back OPEC-led efforts to stabilise oil prices by
limiting supplies to world crude markets. Norway, not an OPEC member,
decided in June to extend the production restraints, enforced since
February 1 1987, on all its North Sea fields for the rest of the year.
Oil Minister Arne Oeien said last month he expected Norway would
extend into 1988 its policy of slowed production growth. The biggest
increase was seen on the Ekofisk field, which pumped 168,023 bpd in
September against 48,195 bpd in August, field operator Phillips
Petroleum Norway Inc said. Ekofisk and the nearby Valhall and Ula
fields, which use the Ekofisk pipeline, were shut down for most of
August while Phillips raised Ekofisk platforms to counter seabed
subsidence. BP Petroleum Development Norway Ltd, operator of the Ula
field, said September output rose to 86,727 bpd after dropping to
27,237 bpd in August because of the shutdown. Valhall, operated by
Amoco Norway A/S, flowed 74,694 bpd last month compared with 69,748
bpd in August, the company said. September production was also sharply
higher at the Statfjord field. Norway's 84 pct share of Statfjord,
which extends into the British North Sea sector, was 611,138 bpd
against 552,646 bpd in August, operator Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap
A/S (Statoil) said. Norway's 22.2 pct share of the Murchison field
which, like Statfjord, extends into the British sector, yielded 15,388
bpd in September, a slight 920 bpd decrease from the previous month,
Norwegian partners on the British-operated field said. Statoil boosted
output at its Gullfaks field to 109,670 bpd in September, compared
with 100,188 in August. Norsk Hydro, operator of the Oseberg field,
said test output at the field from the mobile production ship Petro
Jarl totalled 1,719 bpd last month, down sharply from 16,170 bpd in
August. Hydro said the drop was caused by failure to bring on stream a
second well, cutting September production to just two days. REUTER 

IRAQ REJECTS NEW OPEC OIL QUOTA
    BAGHDAD, June 29 - 
Iraq has rejected its new OPEC production quota set in Vienna for the
second half of this year, the official Iraqi news agency INA reported.
It quoted Oil Minister Issam Abdul-Rahim al-Chalabi, who returned
Sunday, as saying "Iraq will continue to adhere to its position
considering itself as not included in the agreement." Last December,
Iraq rejected its assigned first half 1987 quota of 1.466 mln bpd and
demanded a share equal to the 2.255 mln bpd quota set for Iran, its
enemy in the nearly seven-year-old Gulf war. The accord reached by
OPEC ministers in Vienna Saturday set an output ceiling of 16.6 mln
bpd for the group's 13 members from July to December, raising Iraq's
share to 1.54 mln bpd and Iran's to 2.369 mln. Reuter 

DOE RESOLVES ISSUES WITH ROYAL DUTCH <RD> UNIT
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
The Energy Department said it had approved in final form an agreement
that resolves all remaining issues with Shell Oil Co over oil pricing
and allocation controls that ended in 1981. Under the agreement, The
Royal Dutch/Shell Group unit agreed to pay 20 mln dlrs to settle
refiner pricing issues and 160 mln dlrs to settle crude oil pricing
issues, DOE said. DOE said that before making the pact final, it
modified it to reflect Shell's compliance with the Tertiary Incentive
Program, a provision not in the version published last Dec 31. reuter


U.K. COURT RULES AGAINST RTZ ON OIL FIELD COSTS
    LONDON, June 18 - 
The U.K. High Court dismissed an appeal by Rio Tinto-Zinc Corp Plc's
<RTZL.L> RTZ Oil and Gas Ltd unit and ruled that the financial
provisions a company makes for the future cost of abandoning an oil
field are not tax deductible, the Press Association reported. The
company was appealing against a decision of the Tax Commissioners that
any such provision was a capital expenditure, not a revenue
expenditure, and was not deductible. The court was told that since
1976 the company had made an annual provision of around 750,000 stg
for the eventual cost of abandoning a rig. An RTZ spokesman said the
ruling was not worrying as the subsidiary had assumed that the
provisions were not deductible from corporation tax payable. It would
have been a bonus if the company had won but all budgeting had been on
the assumption that it would not, he said. Oil analysts said that
RTZ's assumption of liability was shared by the industry as a whole.
The ruling appeared to mean that tax relief on the expensive process
of abandoning rigs would apply when the expense occurred, not when
provisions for future expenses were built into the accounts, one
analyst added. Reuter 

PETRO-CANADA CRUDE UP 32 CTS CANADIAN/BBL
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Petro-Canada, a state-owned oil company, raised the posting prices of
sweet and sour crude oils 32 cts Canadian per barrel, effective today,
the company said. The change brings the price of light sweet crude to
26.50 dlrs Canadian per barrel and the price of light sour crude to
23.77 dlrs Canadian a barrel. The crude oils are from Edmonton/Swann
Hills. Reuter 

ASAMERA <ASM> COMPLETES REFINERY SALE
    CALGARY, Alberta, June 2 - 
Asamera Inc said wholly owned Asamera Oil (U.S.) Inc concluded the
25.25 mln U.S. dlr sale of its Denver refinery to Total Petroleum
North America Ltd. In addition, Total is purchasing crude oil and
refined product inventories at market value, Asamera said. Reuter 

MURPHY OIL <MUR> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Murphy Oil said it increased its crude oil posted prices by 50 cts a
barrel, effective June 17. The company said its new posting for West
Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel. Light
Louisiana Sweet crude is now 19.35 dollars a barrel, the company said.
Increases follow a general trend in the industry started yesterday by
Sun Co. Reuter 

TEXACO <TXC> CANADA TO RAISE CRUDE OIL POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, June 19 -- 
Texaco Inc's Texaco Canada said it will raise postings for its
Edmonton/Swann Hills crude by 24 canadian cts a barrel, effective June
20. The company said the new posting for Edmonton/Swann Hills will be
25.60 dlrs a barrel. The price hike follows a round of crude oil price
increases started late June 17 by Sun Co. The other major canadian
crude suppliers raised prices June 18. Reuter 





ECUADOR TO PRODUCE ABOVE OPEC QUOTA - MINISTER
    QUITO, June 29 - 
Ecuador will produce crude oil in excess of its 221,000-bpd OPEC quota
during the second half of this year, Energy Minister Fernando Santos
Alvite told a news conference. Ecuador plans to produce 280,000 bpd in
August, rising to 320,000 bpd next January, the minister said. "We
will be producing more than the quota to pay off the crude and
products we have been lent by Venezuela, Nigeria and Kuwait and to
compensate for the crude we have been unable to produce during the
past few months," he said. Earthquake damage to a pipeline sharply cut
Ecuadorean production from March to May this year. Santos said the
move had been explained to fellow OPEC members during last week's
meeting in Vienna, when an increase in Ecuador's quota to 221,000 bpd
from 210,000 was approved. "They understood our position and we
believe we remain within the spirit of the (quota) agreement," he
said. Immediately before the March quake Ecuadorean production was
250,000-260,000 bpd, with 144,000 bpd exported. While its production
was down, Venezuela, Nigeria and Kuwait loaned Ecuador a total 12 mln
barrels of crude and four mln barrels of products, Santos said. Reuter


MARATHON RAISED CRUDE POSTED PRICES BY 50 CTS A BARREL EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.




SAUDI ARABIA WANTS TO INCREASE OIL SALES TO JAPAN
    TOKYO, April 17 - 
Saudi Arabia hopes to increase the volume of its oil exports to Japan
through expanding bilateral trade, Saudi Arabian Interior Minister
Naif bin Abdul-Aziz said. He told a Tokyo reception his country hopes
to raise crude and products exports to Japan to earlier levels, but
did not elaborate. To promote trade, Saudi Arabia is inviting Japanese
industries to do business there, he said. Japanese firms now have
long-term contracts to import a total of 150,000 barrels per day of
Saudi crude. REUTER 

OPEC PRESIDENT LUKMAN EXPECTS SHORT, CALM MEETING
    LAGOS, June 19 - 
OPEC conference president Rilwanu Lukman said he expects next week's
ministerial meeting in Vienna to be brief and calm and that OPEC's
current price and production agreement may only need a slight review.
"I expect the meeting in Vienna to be short and calm," Lukman, who is
also Nigerian oil minister, told reporters here ahead of his departure
on Sunday for the conference, which starts June 25. "We already have
an agreement which may need only a slight review," Lukman said. The
agreement reached at a long session of OPEC ministers in December last
year pegged the group's crude oil output at 15.8 mln bpd for first
half 1987 at fixed prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel. Since then
prices have risen from 15 dlrs in December to just above the official
OPEC levels, with oil industry analysts firmly convinced the
organisation will maintain the agreement to keep the market stable. "I
myself believe that OPEC will tend to take a position to strengthen
the gains we have made so far," Lukman said. He declined to say if the
current ceiling should be maintained or raised to 16.6 mln bpd for the
third quarter and 18.3 mln for the fourth as provisionally agreed last
December. "Whatever decision we arrive at will be guided by our
collective will to keep the market strong," he said. He said non-OPEC
member Norway, which he visited two weeks ago, had pledged further
cooperation with the group and this was significant for its members.
Lukman said heavy destocking by consumers early this year when OPEC's
fixed price regime came into effect and a restocking now for the
winter was responsible for current market strength. Reuter 

INDONESIA CUTS JULY CRUDE SUPPLIES TO JAPAN
    TOKYO, June 18 - 
Indonesia's state oil company, Pertamina, has informed its affiliated
Japanese companies that crude oil supplies will be 40 pct less than
contractual volumes in July, a spokesman for an affiliated company
said. He said the allocations were in line with Indonesia's production
ceiling under its current OPEC quota, so they might be increased if
OPEC ratifies a production rise next week. Allocations of Indonesia's
main traded crude, Minas, had been cut by 50 pct and Duri by 38 pct,
he said. Last month contractual volumes were cut by 30 pct.
Contractual volumes assume no production ceiling. Oil traders said
Indonesian grades were already trading above their official selling
prices (osp) on the spot market due to strong demand from Japan and
the U.S. And tight supplies. A cargo of Duri loading in July was
reportedly traded yesterday at 70 cents over its osp of 15.60 dlrs per
barrel and Minas is trading about 20 cents higher, they said. REUTER 

GHANA TO BUY CRUDE OIL FROM IRAN
    LONDON, April 8 - 
Ghana will import 15,000 tonnes of crude oil annually from Iran under
an agreement reached in Tehran today, the Iranian news agency IRNA
reported. The agency, received in London, said the accord was reached
between Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh and a visiting
Ghanaian delegation headed by Foreign Minister Obed Asamoah. IRNA said
that under the agreement, Iran will also provide technical and
scientific assistance in manpower training and oil exploitation,
production and refining. Reuter 

ARCO RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES 50 CTS BARREL, TODAY, WTI TO 19.00




TURKEY CALLS FOR DIALOGUE TO SOLVE DISPUTE
    ANKARA, April 8 - 
Turkey said today its disputes with Greece, including rights on the
continental shelf in the Aegean Sea, should be solved through
negotiations. A Foreign Ministry statement said the latest crisis
between the two NATO members stemmed from the continental shelf
dispute and an agreement on this issue would effect the security,
economy and other rights of both countries. "As the issue is basicly
political, a solution can only be found by bilateral negotiations,"
the statement said. Greece has repeatedly said the issue was legal and
could be solved at the International Court of Justice. The two
countries approached armed confrontation last month after Greece
announced it planned oil exploration work in the Aegean and Turkey
said it would also search for oil. A face-off was averted when Turkey
confined its research to territorrial waters. "The latest crises
created an historic opportunity to solve the disputes between the two
countries," the Foreign Ministry statement said. Turkey's ambassador
in Athens, Nazmi Akiman, was due to meet Prime Minister Andreas
Papandreou today for the Greek reply to a message sent last week by
Turkish Prime Minister Turgut Ozal. The contents of the message were
not disclosed. Reuter 

SECURITY COUNCIL CALLS TALKS AFTER GULF ATTACK
    UNITED NATIONS, Oct 19 - 
The U.N. Security Council was called to a private meeting on Monday
for consultations following the United States attack on an Iranian oil
platform. Meanwhile, a U.N. spokesman said that as far as he knew a
report to the council and Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar on
the action had not been received from the Americans. In Washington,
President Reagan said the United Nations was being informed of the
attack under the provision of the U.N. Charter regarding notification
of actions taken under the right of self-defense. The U.N. spokesman,
Francois Giuliani, said Perez de Cuellar had no comment on the attack,
taken in response to Iranian action against an American-owned tanker
last week, but was trying to find out "what actually happened." Calls
to Iran's U.N. commission elicited no response. Reuter 

IRAN FOREIGN MINISTER TELLS CUBA OF GULF SITUATION
    HAVANA, Oct 19 - 
Iranian foreign minister ali akbar velayati, here on a two-day
official visit, informed cuban foreign ministry officials on monday on
the tense situation in the gulf, diplomatic sources said. They said
the envoy's trip, to be followed from tuesday by a visit to nicaragua,
could be linked to a possible mediation of the non-aligned movement in
the seven-year-old iran-iraq war but they ruled out any prominent
cuban role in it. Velayati could not be reached for comment on the
U.S. Attack on an abandoned iranian oil rig on monday which tehran
vowed to avenge. Reuter 

ARCO <ARC> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Atlantic Richfield's Arco Oil and Gas Co said it increased contract
prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective today. Arco said
the 50 cts increase brings its posted price for West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade, to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The
price of West Texas Sour was increased to 18.10 dlrs. Light Louisiana
Sweet was raised to 19.35 dlrs. The price was last changed on
September 30. Reuter 

UNOCAL <UCL> RAISED CRUDE OIL POSTINGS BY 50 CTS/BBL
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Unocal said it raised its postings for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel,
effective June 17. The company said it is now posting West Texas
Intermediate and West Texas Sour at 19 dlrs a barrel. Unocal said its
new Light Louisiana Sweet posted price is 19.35 dlrs a barrel. the
price move follows a wave of increases initiated by Sun Co yesterday.
Reuter 

TRITON <OIL> SAYS PARIS BASIN RESERVES UP 39 PCT
    DALLAS, April 13 - 
Triton Energy Corp said proven reserves of the Villespedue oil field
in France's Paris Basin were estimated at a total of 67.5 mln barrels
on March one, up 39 pct from 48.7 mln barrels on May 31, 1986. Triton
said its 60 pct owned <Triton Europe Plc> subsidiary has a 50 pct
interest in the field which is located 50 miles east of Paris. The
other 50 pct is held by <Total Exploration S.A.>, the field's
operator. Reuter 

MAJOR U.S. OIL PIPELINE SHUT DOWN BY FLOODS
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Flooding in the Red River on the Texas/Oklahoma border has shut down
the Basin Pipeline, a 24-inch pipeline that transports as much as
300,000 barrels per day of sweet and sour crudes from Texas to
Cushing, Okla, a Texaco Pipeline Co spokesman confirmed. "The water is
rushing by so fast that we can't get any divers down to assess the
damage but there is some possibility that the pipeline could be up by
the end of the week," a company source said. The pipeline transmits
roughly two-thirds sour crude and one-third sweet crude oil from the
Midland, Texas region. Texaco sources said that if the pipeline
service is restored by Friday there would be little problem in
restoring oil which has been lost to the flood. "But if the pipeline
is down more than 10 days it will be difficult to make up without
prorationing and we would not like to proration this pipeline, if we
don't have to." The Basin Pipeline is jointly owned by Atlantic
Richfield Corp <ARC>, Shell Oil Co, a subsidiary of the Royal
Dutch/Shell Group <RD> and Texaco Inc <TX>, which is the pipeline's
operator. Peter Beutel, analyst at Elders Futures Inc, said crude oil
futures contracts on New York Mercantile Exchange rose to new highs
this afternoon following news of the pipeline break. July crude
futures of West Texas Intermediate traded up to 19.60 dlrs a barrel, a
rise of more than 20 cts. Cash market prices also firmed on the news
with sellers of WTI raising offers to 19.60 dlrs a barrel. Sour
crudes, which would be most affected by the pipeline shutdown,
however, were slow to react to the news with West Texas Sour and
Alaska North Slope holding 50 cts to one dlr a barrel below WTI,
respectively. Dan Stevens, manager of public and government affairs at
Texaco, said the company hopes to fix the pipeline in five days but
that will depend on when the water level of the Red River recedes.
There is already evidence that the water level is dropping and it
appears the rain has stopped in the area affecting the pipeline,
Stevens said. He said the segment of the pipeline that was damaged was
underground and at a distance from the Red River that flooded. The
pipeline runs over the Red River and under the subsoil nearby,
according to Stevens. He said some of this subsoil was apparently
washed away. The potential for environmental damage is being
downplayed at this time despite the volume of oil that runs through
this line. Texaco's Stevens said that aerial surveillance has not
found any crude on the water in the river or in Lake Texoma, which is
nearby. Reuter 

AMPLE SUPPLIES LIMIT U.S. STRIKE'S OIL PRICE IMPACT
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
Ample supplies of OPEC crude weighing on world markets helped limit
and then reverse oil price gains that followed the U.S. Strike on an
Iranian oil platform in the Gulf earlier on Monday, analysts said.
December loading rose to 19.65 dlrs, up 45 cents before falling to
around 19.05/15 later, unchanged from last Friday. "Fundamentals are
awful," said Philip Lambert, analyst with stockbrokers Kleinwort
Grieveson, adding that total OPEC production in the first week of
October could be above 18.5 mln bpd, little changed from September
levels. Peter Nicol, analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank, said OPEC
production could be about 18.5-19.0 mln in October. Reuter and
International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates put OPEC September
production at 18.5 mln bpd. The U.S. Attack was in retaliation of last
Friday's hit of a Kuwaiti oil products tanker flying the U.S. Flag,
the Sea Isle City. It was struck by a missile, believed to be Iranian,
in Kuwaiti waters, and was the first hit on a U.S. Flag commercial
vessel in the seven year Iran/Iraq war. The U.S. Owned Liberian flag
tanker Sungari was hit in the area on Thursday, also believed struck
by an Iranian missile. Refiners were not significant purchasers of
physical oil on Monday as a result increased Gulf tension following
the U.S. Attack, analysts said. They said a closure of the Strait of
Hormuz, through which around eight mln bpd passes, isnlikely because
it is not in the interests of the U.S. Or Iran, they said. Any threat
to oil supplies would stem from an increase in the number of tanker
attacks as part of a widening of Gulf hostilities, analysts said. But
they saw the U.S. Strike as a limited reply to Iranian missile
attacks, with some describing it as responsible. Geoffrey Pyne,
analyst at stockbrokers Phillips and Drew, said he was impressed by
the sensible U.S. Response. "The U.S. Has thought carefully about what
would correspond to Iranian agression. They have proved to the
Iranians that any further action will be met with a like-for-like
response. Today's action by the U.S. Was not escalatory," Pyne said.
Kleinwort Grieveson's Lambert said the U.S. Strike was "a responsible
retaliation," with the U.S. Apparently indicating to Iran that it
could increase the severity of its attacksf Iran chose to raise the
level of conflict. Chase Manhattan's Nicol took a different view,
however. He said he was unable to see what the U.S. Had achieved as
Arab states such as Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, whose interests the U.S.
Is supposedly defending, will feel less secure as a result of the U.S.
Attack and fear some sort of Iranian retaliation. The initial upward
market move this morning reflected a strong speculative reaction to
rumours of a U.S. Attack which was thought at one stage to have been
against Iranian missile launchers on the Faw Peninsula, close to
Kuwait, analysts said. The later downtrend followed confirmation of a
U.S. Navy attack on an Iranian oil platform by the U.S. Defence
Secretary Caspar Weinburger. Market operators were able to evaluate
the situation in the Gulf on the basis of confirmed fact, and finding
it less serious than first thought, took profits, taking prices lower,
analysts and traders said. REUTER 

GULF CANADA <GOC> ACQUIRES SUEZ OIL STAKE
    CALGARY, Alberta, April 13 - 
Gulf Canada Corp said it acquired a 25 pct working interest in the
Gulf of Suez oil concession for undisclosed terms. The company said
its agreement with operator Conoco Hurghada Inc and Hispanoil covered
the 168,374-acre East Hurghada offshore concession. It said a 15.6 mln
U.S. dlr four-well program was planned for 1987. After the
acquisition, which is subject to Egyptian government approval, working
interests in the Hurghada block will be Conoco Hurghada at 45 pct,
Hispanoil 30 pct and Gulf Canada the balance. Reuter 

COMPROMISE SEEN LIKELY OVER CONOCO-STATOIL DISPUTE
    OSLO, June 1 - 
Norway is expected to seek a compromise solution to defuse a row
between Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S <STAT.OL> (Statoil) and
Conoco Norge A/S over which firm will operate the Heidrun oil field,
government sources said. The sources, who asked not to be named, said
the government will likely recommend that Conoco be allowed to
continue as the field's operator through the development phase, with
Statoil taking over only after production starts in the early 1990s.
Oil Minister Arne Oeien told Reuters the government had today discused
the Heidrun matter but that no final decision had been taken and
several questions remained unresolved. It was unlikely the government
would announce its decision on Heidrun operatorship until after
Thursday's cabinet meeting and after discussing a proposed solution
with both companies, the sources added. This spring Norway's state-
owned oil company Statoil exercised an option in the Heidrun field
exploration license that, if approved by the government, would allow
it to relieve Conoco as Heidrun operator, a move sharply criticised by
Conoco. Heidrun is often cited by the government and industry as the
most likely candidate for the first field development project on the
Haltenbanken exploration tract off central Norway. Reuter 

ECUADOR'S CEPE NAMES NEW HEAD
    QUITO, Oct 20 - 
The state-run Ecuadorean State Oil Corporation (CEPE) has named Jaime
Sanchez Valdivieso as its new general manager replacing Carlos Romo
Leroux, a CEPE spokesman said. The spokesman told Reuters Sanchez is a
46-year-old civil engineer who formerly headed CEPE's administration
and finances division. Romo Leroux resigned last week for "personal
and family" reasons, the spokesman said. Reuter 

BASIN PIPELINE TEXAS/OKLA BORDER WASHED OUT BY FLOODS SOME 300,000 BPD CRUDE AFFECTED.




ABU DHABI MARKETING SAID NOT BREACHING OPEC PACT
    ABU DHABI, April 13 - 
A senior Abu Dhabi oil official said in remarks published today the
emirate, largest producer in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), was
succeeding in marketing its crude oil without breaching OPEC accords.
Khalaf al-Oteiba, Marketing Director at the Abu Dhabi National Oil Co
(ADNOC), told the company's Petroleum Community magazine ADNOC was
also keen to keep good customer relations. "The company will maintain
its dialogue with and care for its customers in accordance with market
conditions...And take necessary steps to guarantee marketing its
production," he said. "The present oil marketing policy of ADNOC is
based on adherence to OPEC decisions of December 1986 to control
production and establish a new pricing system in an attempt to
stabilize the market," he added. OPEC agreed last December to limit
production to 15.8 mln bpd and return to fixed prices averaging 18
dlrs a barrel. Oteiba said stabilization of the oil market in the
future depended on how much discipline OPEC showed. Oteiba said last
year, when world oil prices dropped, was ADNOC's most difficult ever
but "a practical and flexible pricing policy was implemented to relate
to the changed market environment." He said crude oil sales last year
jumped to an average 609,000 bpd of which 73 pct was exported. Refined
product sales totalled eight mln metric tonnes, of which 67 pct was
exported. In 1985, ADNOC marketed a total of 476,000 bpd of crude oil
and 7.2 mln tonnes of refined products. Reuter 

VENEZUELA BUDGET SEES 16.35 DLRS OIL PRICE
    CARACAS, June 29 - 
Venezuela's government tomorrow presents a 1988 budget proposal for
183.432 billion bolivars, based upon an oil price of 16.35 dlrs per
barrel, finance minister Manuel Azpurua said. Azpurua told reporters
after a cabinet meeting the new budget projects ordinary income of
149.925 billion bolivars and extraordinary income of 34.186 billion.
Oil revenues are expected to produce 92.014 billion, or 61 pct of the
total. The finance minister said the oil revenue projection is based
on an average price of 16.35 dlrs per barrel in 1988. Venezuelan oil
through the first half of 1987 has averaged 16. 20 dlrs per barrel,
according to the state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. Reuter


CHEVRON N.SEA FIND MAY HOLD 300 MLN BBLS -ANALYSTS
    LONDON, June 29 - 
A North Sea oil find announced by Chevron Corp's <CHV> Chevron
Exploration North Sea Ltd may indicate a new field with recoverable
crude oil reserves of 300 mln barrels, industry analysts said. Chevron
said a sidetrack well on block 16/26 on the U.K. Continental shelf
tested 9,000 barrels per day (bpd) of 20 API crude oil from the
tertiary "Alba" sand through a three-inch surface choke. "The
estimated amount of oil at the Alba field is around 320 mln barrels,"
Paul Spedding of stockbroker Kleinwort Grieveson and Co told Reuters.
He said industry estimates put the total reserves at the field at over
one billion barrels, but given the low gravity of oil, the recovery
rate would be expected to be around 20-25 pct. Analysts said the
results were encouraging, but the potential difficulty of operating
and recovering oil in the field was shown by the fact that the first
well had to be plugged and a sidetrack drilled. "The field seems to be
shallow and widespread, which will require a multi-platform
development in recovery, pushing costs up," Christopher Osborne of
stockbroker Hoare Govett said. Most analysts said that although the
low gravity of the oil found would require additional costs in
recovery, the test well showed that it flows well. "Although the
gravity of oil at the field seems to be low, it seems to flow quite
well and around 300 mln barrels could be recovered," Carol Bell of
Phillips and Drew told Reuters. However, Chevron officials declined to
comment on the analysts' reserve estimates. They said that without
further research and drilling in the area this summer, they would not
disclose any reserve figures. Analysts said that if the field were
declared commercial and developed, there would be a ready local market
for the heavy crude it produced. "Most refineries are now upgraded to
refine heavy oils and the price differentials between heavy and light
crudes are a lot narrower today," Osborne said. Chevron operates the
block on behalf of 16 companies which include British Petroleum
Development Ltd, DSM Hydrocarbons (UK) Ltd, Enterprise Oil (TNS) Ltd,
Marathon Int. Pet. (GB) Ltd and Phillips Petroleum Co U.K. Ltd. Reuter


IMPERIAL OIL <IMO.A> RAISES CRUDE 32 CANADIAN CTS
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Canadian Imperial Oil, 70 pct Exxon owned, said it raised its posting
for light sweet crude oil at Edmonton by 32 canadian cts a barrel,
effective today. The company said its new posting for light sweet
crude oil at Edmonton is 25.60 canadian dlrs a barrel. Reuter 

SOVIET 1988 OIL OUTPUT TARGET AT 625 MLN TONNES
    MOSCOW, Oct 20 - 
The Soviet oil production target for 1988 has been set at 625 mln
tonnes, a rise of eight mln tonnes over this year's planned output.
Oil Minister Vasily Dinkov announced the figure on Tuesday at the
Supreme Soviet, the country's nominal parliament. He said a new
development strategy, fuller use of oil deposits and better housing
and pay for oilmen had allowed an upsurge in the oil industry after
three years of stagnation which began in late 1983. Last year the
Soviet Union produced 615 mln tonnes of oil, slightly short of the
target of 616.7 mln. January-September figures released at the weekend
showed Soviet oil output in the first nine months of this year at 467
mln tonnes. The 1987 target is 617 million. Dinkov said the Soviet
Union would develop 38 new oil deposits in the coming year. He called
for speedier geolog prospecting across the country to spur the oil
industry. The Supreme Soviet convened on Monday to endorse the 1988
budget and plan. The session is expected to end on Tuesday. REUTER 

IMPERIAL OIL RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 32 CANADIAN
CTS/BBL, LIGHT SWEET NOW 25.60





COASTAL <CGP> RAISES OIL POSTED PRICES
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Coastal Corp said that effective October 16 it had raised posted
prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel. The increase brings West
Texas Intermediate to 9.00 dlrs a barrel and West Texas Sour to 18.10
dlrs a barrel. Sun Co <SUN> announced that it would make a 50 cts a
barrel increase late Friday bringing WTI to 19.00 dlrs a barrel and
traders said that other oil companies could be expected to increase
prices. Reuter 

CONGRESSMAN SAYS U.S. UNPREPARED FOR OIL CUTOFF
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
Rep. Mike Synar said today that while President Reagan is ready to use
military force to protect Kuwait tankers in the Gulf, the United
States is ill-prepared at home to deal with a new energy crisis.
Synar, Democrat of Oklahoma, made his remarks in comments on a study
by the General Accounting Office (GAO) on the U.S. participation in
the 1985 test of the emergency oil sharing program of the
International Energy Agency. The IEA, an alliance of 21 oil consuming
countries, was formed after the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo to find ways
to deal with any future oil cutoff. Synar said, "the president is
prepared to take military action to protect Kuwaiti oil tankers but
has been unwilling to take less dangerous, equally-important action to
prepare our nation for the next energy crisis." Reagan said the U.S.
military would protect Kuwaiti oilers to assure the West of a
continuing supply of Middle East oil, increasingly being threatened by
the Iranian-Iraqi war. Synar, who asked for the GAO report after
criticism of U.S. action in a previous IEA test, said the United
States successfully advocated a test limited to training participants
in oil sharing procedures and the system's mechanical aspects. Reuter


SHELL CANADA <SHC> RAISES CRUDE 32 CTS CANADIAN
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Shell Canada <SHC>, whose majority interest is owned by the Royal
Dutch/Shell Group of companies, raised the postings of light sweet and
sour crude oil from Edmonton/Swann Hills 32 Canadian cts a barrel,
effective today. The new price for light sweet crude oil is 25.60
Canadian dlrs a barrel while the new price for light sweet sour crude
is 24.08 Canadian dlrs a barrel. The Royal Dtuch/Shell Group owns 72
pct of Shell Canada and public shareholders, primarily Canadian, own
the remaining 28 pct of the company, a Shell Canada spokesman said.
Reuter 

LA LAND <LLX>,DU PONT <DD>GET EXPLORATION TRACTS
    NEW ORLEANS, April 9 - 
Louisiana Land and Exploration Co said it, Du Pont Co's Conoco Inc
subsidiary and <Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V.> have been offered four
exploration blocks offshore The Netherlands. Louisiana Land said
Blocks Q4a, E12c and E15b were offered to the group in which Conoco
has a 67.5 pct interest, Louisiana Land 20 pct and Orange-Nassau 12.5
pct, while this group along with a consortium headed by Pennzoil Co
<PZL> were offered Block Q5c. The offers were the result of
applications submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the
Netherlands Sixth Offshore Licensing Round. Louisiana Land said the
Conoco group intends to provide a formal acceptance of the blocks with
plans to start exploration this year. The company also said the two Q
blocks immediately offset other offshore blocks on which hydrocarbons
have been found in commercial quantities. Reuter 

IRAN, SOVIET UNION TO SWAP CRUDE, REFINED PRODUCTS
    NICOSIA, Oct 19 - 
The Soviet Union has agreed to supply Iran with refined oil products
in exchange for 100,000 barrels per day of crude, Iran's national news
agency, IRNA, said. IRNA, monitored in Nicosia, quoted Oil Minister
Gholamreza Aqazadeh as saying on his return to Tehran from Moscow that
the agreement was part of a protocol on economic cooperation signed
during his visit. The amount of crude delivered to the Soviet Union
might double to 200,000 bpd later, he said. Aqazadeh said the two
sides agreed to conduct feasibility studies for a pipeline to take
Iranian crude from fields in southern Iran to the Black Sea through
the Soviet Union. Iran is pursuing the pipeline project to protect
part of its oil exports from Iraqi air attacks in the Gulf. Irna made
no mention of natural gas exports to the Soviet Union, which Aqazadeh
had said would be discussed before he left for Moscow. Iran lost most
of its refining capacity early in the Gulf war and now imports several
hundred thousand bpd of refined products. Aqazadeh said Soviet refined
products would be delivered at the Caspian Sea ports of Anzali and
Nowshahr, at Neka, near the Caspian, and at Jolfa in north-west Iran.
REUTER 

STATOIL PLACES NORTH SEA VESLEFRIKK FIELD ORDERS
    OSLO, Oct 19 - 
Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S (Statoil) <STAT.OL>, operator on
Norway's North Sea Veslefrikk oil field, has placed field development
contracts totalling 1.5 billion crowns with two domestic yards, the
company said in a statement. Moss Rosenberg Verft, a subsidiary of
Kvaerner Industrier A/S <KVIO.OL> won a 1.2 billion crown contract to
convert Statoil's semisubmersible rig West Vision to a floating
production platform and to build the deck for a separate, fixed well-
head platform to be placed on the field, it said. Statoil said Aker
Verdal, a unit of Aker Norcem A/S <AMVO.OL>, won a 300-mln crown
contract to design and build the well-head platform's 10,000-tonne
steel substructure, to stand in 150 metres of water next to the
converted rig. Statoil said using a floating production unit rather
than a fixed platform would cut construction time, enabling field
partners to bring Veslefrikk on stream in late 1989 -- several months
earlier than previously planned. Veslefrikk, with estimated
recoverable reserves of 258 mln barrels oil and 140 billion cubic feet
gas, is located 145 km west of Bergen. Statoil estimates the field's
total development cost, including drilling, at 6.6 billion crowns.
Planned daily output is 65,000 barrels oil and 35 mln cubic feet gas.
Veslefrikk's oil will be landed via the nearby Oseberg field pipeline
at the Sture crude terminal near Bergen. Its gas will be fed into the
Statpipe line, which gathers gas from Norway's Statfjord, Gullfaks and
Oseberg fields. Partners on the field are Statoil, the operator, with
a 55 pct share, <Unocal Norge A/S> (18 pct), <Deminex (Norge) A/S>
(13.5 pct), Norsk Hydro A/S <NHY.OL> (nine pct) and <Svenska Petroleum
AB> (4.5 pct). REUTER 

LUKMAN SEES STABLE OIL PRICE FOR NEXT COUPLE YEARS
    STOCKHOLM, June 2 - 
The current crude oil price of between 18 and 20 dlrs a barrel will
remain stable over the next couple of years, rising only one to two
dlrs a barrel per annum to keep up with inflation, OPEC President
Rilwanu Lukman said. Lukman, who was speaking during talks with
Swedish trade officials, said the stable price depended upon output
restraint by both OPEC and non-OPEC oil producers, Swedish government
officials said. They said Lukman, who is also Nigerian oil minister,
made the remarks whilst talking about the connection between Third
World debt and industrialised nations. Crude oil output controls did
not necessarily mean higher energy bills for the world's industrial
nations, Lukman said. Although very low oil prices, such as those seen
around the beginning of the year, may appear beneficial for the
industrial countries that depend on imported energy, they would only
lead to wastage and overdependence on the fuel in the long term, he
said. This in turn would bring a swing back to extremely high prices,
he added. Sweden, heavily dependent on imported oil, suffered a major
crisis in the mid-1970s, when oil prices spiralled. REUTER 

UAE OIL MINISTER OTEIBA VISITS EGYPT - AGENCY
    CAIRO, June 29 - 
UAE Oil Minister Mana Said al-Oteiba arrived in Alexandria last night
for a visit to Egypt, the national Middle East News Agency (MENA)
said. It said Oteiba, who had just attended the OPEC ministerial
meeting in Vienna, would stay for several days but gave no details.
Non-OPEC Egypt has pledged to restrain output to support OPEC's moves
to boost oil prices. Oil Minister Abdel Hadi Kandeel last week said
Egypt plans to leave its oil production of 870,000 barrels per day
unchanged for the next five years. Egypt is able to produce up to one
mln bpd. REUTER 

AMOCO RAISES MOST CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS TODAY, WTI TO 19.00 DLRS




ECUADOR CRUDE OIL OUTPUT TO RESUME NEXT MONTH
    QUITO, April 9 - 
Ecuador is due to resume limited crude oil output on May 8 when a new
43 km pipeline to neighbouring Colombia should be finished, an energy
ministry spokesman said. Oil output was halted on March 5 by an
earthquake which damaged 50 km of the main pipeline linking jungle
oilfields at Lago Agrio to the Ecuadorean port of Balao on the
Pacific. About 13 km of the new link, capable of carrying some 50,000
barrels per day (bpd), has been built, he said. Ecuador pumped 245,000
to 250,000 bpd before the earthquake. The new link will connect Lago
Agrio to Puerto Colon in Colombia, the starting point of Columbia's
pipeline to the Pacific ocean port of Temuco. The government estimates
it will take about four more months to repair the Lago Agrio to Balao
pipeline and return output to normal levels, the spokesman said.
REUTER 

U.S. OIL PRICES STRONG AHEAD OF OPEC MEETING
    NEW YORK, June 19 - 
U.S. crude oil prices are at their highest level in more than a year
ahead of next week's OPEC meeting, even though most industry analysts
do not expect any policy changes from the session. They said prices,
which have steadily climbed since the organization's accord in
December, have risen on technical factors within the market and
concerns about supplies because of the Iran-Iraq war, which could
disrupt deliveries from the Gulf. The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas
Intermediate is trading around 20.55 dlrs in the July contract on New
York Mercantile Exchange's energy futures and in the spot market. That
is its highest level since January 1986. OPEC conference president
Rilwanu Lukman, who is Nigeria's oil minister, said Friday he expects
the meeting in Vienna to be brief and calm and that OPEC's current
price and production agreement may only need a slight review. Although
most industry experts expect just a reaffirmation of the December
agreement, oil prices continue to climb due to a desire to hedge
positions in case of any surprises. Analysts expect the higher prices
to continue until soon after the OPEC meeting. At that point, barring
any increased tension in the Gulf or changes in OPEC's policies,
prices should begin easing. "OPEC will probably not do anything it
hasn't already agreed to in December because oil prices are firm,"
said John Hill, a vice president at Merrill Lynch Futures. OPEC agreed
in December to maintain official oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel and
raise the group's production ceiling to 16.6 mln barrels per day in
the third quarter and to 18.3 mln barrels in the fourth quarter. This
agreement helped send prices sharply higher, rising from 15 dlrs a
barrel in early December. Several OPEC members who are price hawks,
including Iran, Algeria and Libya, will seek a higher official price
and a reduction in output. "And if U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude
continues to trade above 20 dlrs a barrel, there is a greater chance
that OPEC will raise its official 18 dlrs price," said Nauman Barakat,
analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. But most analysts expect
the more moderate producers, such as Saudi Arabia, to block any
changes in policy. "The meeting will be a non-event with no change in
the official prices because OPEC, and in particular the Saudis, are
committed to stabilizing the market," said Rosario Ilacqua, analyst
with L.F. Rothschild. However, some analysts said OPEC may need to
hold a meeting in September to re-evaluate market conditions.
Overproduction by OPEC will become a real problem in the fourth
quarter when the quota is raised to 18.3 mln barrels a day and Iraq's
pipeline through Turkey brings another 500,000 barrels to the market
each day, said John Lichtblau, president of Petroleum Industry
Ressearch Foundation. Most expect Saudi Arabia to oppose a price
increase at this meeting but many look for an increase by year-end to
20 dlrs to offset the decline in the dollar. Oil prices are
denominated throughout the world in dollars, so as the currency
declines, producers receive less money for their oil. "The only real
production restraint in OPEC is Saudi Arabia," said Sanford Margoshes,
analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. "In the second half of the year
we expect the Saudis not to produce at their 4.1 mln barrel a day
quota and therefore act as a vehicle to stablize the market and pave
the way for a two dlrs a barrel price increase at the December 1987
meeting," he said. One uncertain factor is the course of the Iran-Iraq
war. "The wild card is the increased tensions in the Persian Gulf,"
said Frank Knuettel, analyst with Prudential-Bache Securites. Oil
tankers taking oil from Iraq and Kuwait have been regular targets for
Iranian planes. The Reagan administration is planning to put Kuwait
tankers under the protection of the U.S. flag, with naval escorts.
"Extra (oil) inventories are needed during a time of crisis like this,
and just general nervousness over an incident that could disrupt oil
supplies drives prices up," Knuettel said. Reuter 

MARATHON RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS/BBL, WTI NOW
19.00 DLRS.




SOUTH KOREA INCREASES DUTY ON CRUDE IMPORTS
    SEOUL, June 2 - 
South Korea has increased its duty on crude oil imports to 4.29 dlrs a
barrel from 3.29 dlrs, effective today, the energy ministry said. The
duty, to raise funds for special energy projects, was adjusted after
average crude import prices rose to 16.85 dlrs a barrel in April, from
16.65 dlrs in March and 13.08 dlrs in April 1986, ministry officials
said. A separate 24.5 pct import tax on crude oil is unchanged. REUTER


WEINBERGER SAYS U.S. FORCES ATTACKED IRANIAN OIL PLATFORM




OPEC DIFFERENTIALS NOT SEEN POSING MAJOR PROBLEMS
    LONDON, June 18 - 
Some OPEC states are unhappy about the prices assigned to their crude
oil but this should not pose great problems when the group reviews its
six-month-old price and output pact in Vienna next week, oil analysts
say. They said Nigeria, which holds the OPEC conference presidency,
and Qatar probably have the biggest grievances about price
differentials making some of their crudes uncompetitive. There has
also been speculation by Japanese traders that OPEC might want to mark
up prices of high-sulphur heavy crudes, to correspond with greater
demand and higher fuel oil prices. But most experts agree that a major
overhaul of price differentials is unlikely, so as to avoid giving the
market signals of a dent in OPEC's new unity. "All OPEC members can
make a good case for changing differentials," said one analyst with a
major oil company. "But at the end of the day, the attitude is going
to be "leave well alone' and little or nothing is likely to be
altered." Iran, Libya and Saudi Arabia are among those who also saw
sales problems earlier this year, traders say. But diminished customer
resistance to fixed prices and, in some cases, marketing incentives
have helped their sales. Some producers can sell uncompetitively
priced crudes by means of discounts, processing deals or selling them
alongside better priced grades in a "package." Many OPEC crudes are
seen to be reasonably priced, at least for some part of the year. But
many experts say OPEC should change prices quarterly or monthly to
match seasonal demand for fuel oil-rich heavy crudes and gasoline-rich
lighter grades. At its last meeting in December, OPEC agreed to
reintroduce fixed prices from February 1 around an 18 dlr per barrel
reference point. Official prices had been effectively dropped in 1985
when members offered discounts to attract customers. OPEC also decided
to limit first-half 1987 output to 15.8 mln bpd and proposed ceilings
of 16.6 mln for the third quarter and 18.3 mln for the fourth.
Analysts expect it will now extend or raise slightly the current
ceiling for the coming months. Spot market and netback values for some
crudes do not mirror official prices, but OPEC will probably keep the
18 dlr target and at most make minimal changes to differentials,
analysts say. The 18 dlr figure is based on a basket of six OPEC and
one non-OPEC crudes. OPEC assigned prices to its other key export
crudes, with a 2.65 dlr gap between the heaviest and lightest. Extra
heavy crudes were among those left out. Industry estimates vary on the
proportion of OPEC oil exports actually sold at official prices.
Several experts say only one-quarter to one-third of the total in fact
sells at official prices, with some of the rest included in processing
or barter deals or sold in the form of refined products. Problems with
the new structure appeared earlier this year, when some producers'
output fell due to customer reluctance to pay the new prices. Nigeria
especially found its gasoline-rich Bonny Light crude -- now OPEC's
highest priced grade at 18.92 dlrs a barrel -- was uncompetitive on
the spot market against Britain's Brent. In February and March,
Nigeria's production shrank below its 1.238 mln bpd OPEC quota. Spot
prices have since revived, due partly to seasonal demand for gasoline,
and its output has risen. Some experts feel Bonny Light is still
overvalued and say its price should be cut by between 50 cts to one
dlr a barrel. But Mehdi Varzi, chief oil analyst with London's
Kleinwort Grieveson Securities, doubts Nigeria will actively push the
differentials question in Vienna. "It would not look good for OPEC
unity if Nigeria, which holds the presidency, raised the issue," he
said. REUTER 

SRI LANKA PLANS TO RENEW ABU DHABI OIL CONTRACT
    COLOMBO, June 19 - 
Ceylon Petroleum Corp (CPC) has decided to renew its one-year contract
with Abu Dhabi for 480,000 tonnes of Upper Zakum crude oil, CPC
officials told Reuters. They said CPC made the recommendation to the
cabinet and is now awaiting its approval. CPC's one-year contract with
Abu Dhabi expired on May 31 this year and it wants the renewed
contract to begin on June 1 at the government selling price. Delivery
will be determined in the course of the year. Last year, shipments
were in three parcels of 120,000 tonnes each and four of 30,000 tonnes
each. CPC officials also said the company agreed with the Egyptian
government for the supply of 240,000 tonnes of Gulf of Suez crude for
delivery in two shipments this year at the government selling price.
Last year, CPC bought 120,000 tonnes Gulf of Suez through C.Itoh.
Officials said plans to buy 240,000 tonnes of Basra Light from Iraq
have not been finalised yet because of several constraints. CPC said
it could not accept 120,000 tonne parcels and proposed to lift 30,000
tonnes in eight shipments. Iraq National Oil Co (INOC) told CPC a Red
Sea port where lifting was to take place could not accept small ships.
INOC then proposed to deliver eight shipments of 30,000 tonnes each.
CPC said INOC planned to ship the oil to an Indian port for delivery
of Indian requirements, later going to Colombo to offload CPC's needs,
but CPC considered this unsuitable. CPC said it had not received a
reply from INOC since December. Sri Lanka imports all its annual needs
of 1.7 mln tonnes. This year it plans to buy 400,000 tonnes on the
spot market compared with about 1.3 mln tonnes last year. REUTER 

UNOCAL<UCL> SCRAPS FLUIDIZED BED BOILER PROJECT
    LOS ANGELES, June 19 - 
Unocal Corp said it told the U.S. Treasury Department that it will not
include fluidized bed combustion technology, a method for the more
efficient burning of solids, at its Parachute Creek oil shale project
in Colorado due to high costs. Under a 1985 agreement with the now-
defunct U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp, Unocal said it would study using
the technology at the oil shale plant. In return the company would
have been eligible for 500 mln dlrs in loan gaurantees and price
supports from the U.S. Treasury Department, which took over the
contract from the Synthetic Fuels Corp, Unocal said. Unocal said its
studies showed the cost for the fluidized bed combustion facility
would have exceeded 352 mln dlrs, compared with an original estimate
of 260 mln dlrs. The fluidized bed facility would have provided heat
and electricity for the oil shale project, Unocal said. Last year's
fall in oil prices and the loss of investment tax credit under the Tax
Reform Act made the project uneconomical even with government price
supports and loan guarantees, Unocal said. The Parachute Creek oil
shale plant produces about 4,000 to 5,000 barrels per day of crude
shale oil, Unocal said. Reuter 

TOTAL PETROLEUM <TPN> SHUTS TEXAS PIPELINES
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Total Petroleum NA <TPN> shut down several small crude oil pipelines
operating near the Texas/Oklahoma border last Friday as a precaution
against damage from local flooding, according to Gary Zollinger,
manager of operations. Total shut a 12-inch line that runs across the
Ouachita River from Wynnewood to Ardmore with a capacity of 62,000 bpd
as well as several smaller pipelines a few inches wide with capacities
of several thousand bpd or less, Zollinger said. The Basin Pipeline, a
major pipeline running 300,000 bpd, run by a consortium of other oil
companies, was closed today. One other small pipeline that Total also
closed has a capacity of 3,000 to 4,000 bpd and crosses the Red River
in Fargo, Texas, Zollinger said. He said the closed pipelines run
under river water and could be damaged as the flooded rivers erode the
river banks and expose the piping. Zollinger said Total is waiting for
the river waters to recede before they reactivate the pipelines.
Reuter 

SHIPPING SOURCES SAY UNIDENTIFIED JETS RAID IRANIAN OIL PLATFORMS IN SOUTHERN GULF




SAUDI ARABIA WILL NOT AGREE "MAD" OIL PRICE RISE
    RIYADH, June 2 - 
Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Hisham Nazer said Riyadh would not agree
to a cut in oil prices and would not accept a "mad" increase that
would drive consumers away. He told al-Riyadh newspaper, "Saudi Arabia
follows a balanced petroleum policy. It does not approve of a decrease
in prices from current levels and it also does not accept a mad
increase that would drive consumers away and make them try and find
alternative sources (for energy)." OPEC agreed last December to cut
production after world prices hit new lows in 1986. They agreed on a
pricing system aimed to stabilise the market around 18 dlrs a barrel.
OPEC is scheduled to meet in Vienna on June 25, where it will review
its current oil price and production policy. Saudi Arabia's King Fahd
said last month that he wanted oil prices to remain stable for the
next two years. Saudi Arabia is the architect of the current pricing
and production pact, which is backed by Kuwait and the UAE. The
current pact set a production ceiling for first half 1987 of 15.8 mln
bpd, and implemented fixed prices based on an 18 dlrs a barrel
average. REUTER 

PEMEX OFFICIAL SAYS OPEC OUTPUT CRITICAL TO PRICE
    TOKYO, June 1 - 
Crude oil prices could remain around 18 dlrs a barrel until the end of
the year, but OPEC's decision on output at its next meeting would be
the critical factor, an official of Mexico's state oil company,
Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex), told a group of Japanese businessmen.
Adrian Lajous, Pemex' executive vice president of international trade,
said current OPEC output already appeared to be very near the 16.6 mln
barrel per day level it set itself for the third quarter. "Production
is surging ahead of what was originally planned, while demand is
growing more slowly than envisaged a few months ago," he said. He said
OPEC had to look very carefully at what level of production in the
third quarter would effectively sustain the 18 dlrs price, and that an
increase to what had originally been envisaged might soften price
levels. The 13-member cartel is scheduled to meet on June 25 in Vienna
to review its December accord on prices and output. "I hope OPEC will
follow a very conservative attitude in terms of volume decisions,"
Lajous said. A repetition of what happened last year, when OPEC
boosted output and sent oil prices tumbling down below 10 dlrs, is
always there as a possibility, he said. "I hope never again to go
through the trauma of 1986. I expect other oil exporters have learned
their lessons and discipline will be maintained," he said. Lajous said
there was still excess supply and as long as this remains there will
be a tendency to instability in oil markets, but prices should remain
around 18 to 19 dlrs during 1987 if output remains under control. He
said Saudi King Fahd's remarks last month, that increased production
was not so important as long as incomes would not be affected by the
output, were "very relevant and welcome from such a powerful
producer." REUTER 

KUWAITI DAILY SAYS OPEC CREDIBILITY AT STAKE
    KUWAIT, April 13 - 
OPEC's credibility faces fresh scrutiny in coming weeks amid signs of
a significant rise in supplies of oil to international oil markets,
the Kuwait daily al-Qabas said. In an article headlined, "Gulf oil
sources say Middle East production up 1.4 mln bpd," it warned OPEC's
official prices could face fresh pressure from international oil
companies seeking cheaper supplies. It did not say whether only OPEC
or both OPEC and other producers were behind the reported rise in
Mideast output. Nor did it specify if the sources were official or
other contacts. "The sources said the credibility of OPEC would come
under fresh scrutiny from today (Monday), with activity in the
European and American markets," the daily said. The sources were
quoted as saying that after OPEC had in March demonstrated its
commitment to quota agreements, some members had raised output last
week. It gave no details. "Dealers in oil markets were now waiting to
see if Opec was able to control production, or whether the days of
cheating and producing over quotas has begun anew," it said. The
sources warned that "maybe the (price of a) barrel of oil will fall
below 18, perhaps 17.80 dlrs this week or next if there is no control
on supplies," it said. "The sources believed a return of oil below 18
dlrs a barrel may open the doors for international oil companies to
pressure OPEC over contract prices, similar to the struggle last
March," it said, apparently referring to resistance by buyers to lift
from Qatar unless it gave price discounts. "More than one official has
warned OPEC would find its solidarity under scrutiny by the end of
April or start of May," it said, noting demand usually fell with the
onset of summer. Reuter 

SOUTH YEMEN PLANS OIL EXPORT PIPELINE - MEES
    NICOSIA, Oct 19 - 
South Yemen is planning a major oil pipeline system to be completed in
18-months time to start exports at a initial rate of 100,000 barrels
per day, (bpd) the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES) said. MEES said
government approval for the export pipeline followed a visit to Aden
by a high ranking delegation from the Soviet Union, which will help
South Yemen construct the line The engineering studies for the
pipeline are nearly finished and construction is expected to start
early next year, the industry newsletter said. The pipeline will run
about 170-200 kms (105-125 miles) from Shabwa oilfields to a coastal
terminal at Bir 'Ali on the Gulf of Aden, MEES said. MEES said the
Soviet firm Technoexport, which is developing oilfileds for South
Yemen, has substantially increased its initial reserve estimates and
recommended a pipeline with an eventual 500,000 bpd capacity. The
discovery of commercial quaotities of oil was confirmed by
Technoexport earlier this year in three structures in the Shabwa
region in the Northwestern part of the country, 200 kms east of North
Yemen's Alif oilfield. REUTER 

AUSTRALIAN CRUDE OUTPUT FALLS IN FIRST NINE MONTHS
    CANBERRA, June 18 - 
Australian crude oil and condensate output fell 7.6 pct to 23,480
megalitres, or about 147 mln barrels, in the first nine months of
fiscal 1986/87 ending June 30, the Department of Resources and Energy
said. The decline in production in the nine months to end-March
reflected mainly a sharp dip early in the fiscal year, when low oil
prices and high marginal excise rates led to a reduction of output
from Bass Strait, department figures in its Major Energy Statistics
publication show. A megalitre is 6,290 barrels. REUTER 

VENEZUELA SEES FLAT OIL PRICE DESPITE U.S. ATTACK
    CARACAS, Oct 19 - 
World oil prices would remain stable despite the U.S. Attack against
Iranian oil platforms and growing tension in the Gulf, Venezuelan
Energy Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said on Monday. He described
the situation as "extremely tense," but said Gulf military activity
would not significantly affect prices because supply and demand were
roughly equal. Demand for OPEC crude in the final quarter of 1987 was
18.5 mln barrels per day (bpd) and the group's members were now
pumping above 18 mln bpd, he told a news conference. Hernandez
Grisanti said the supply/demand balance was precarious and prices were
in danger of falling from their current average of about 18 dlrs per
barrel if overproduction continued. Three or four members of the
13-nation Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries were
"overproducing in an exaggerated manner" above their assigned quotas,
he said. OPEC's overall ceiling is 16.6 mln bpd. REUTER 

KUWAITI DAILY SAYS OPEC CREDIBILITY AT STAKE
    KUWAIT, April 13 - 
OPEC's credibility faces fresh scrutiny in coming weeks amid signs of
a significant rise in supplies of oil to international oil markets,
the Kuwait daily al-Qabas said. In an article headlined "Gulf oil
sources say Middle East production up 1.4 mln bpd" and "Markets
witness new surplus amid whispers of return to cheating days," it
warned OPEC's official prices could face fresh pressure from
international oil companies seeking cheaper supplies. It did not say
whether only OPEC or Opec and other producers were behind the reported
rise in Mideast output. Nor did it specify if the sources were
official or other contacts. "The sources said the credibility of OPEC
would come under fresh scrutiny from Monday, with activity in the
European and American markets," it said. The sources were quoted as
saying that after Opec had in March demonstrated its commitment to
quota agreements, some members had raised output last week. It gave no
details. "Dealers in oil markets were now waiting to see if Opec was
able to control production, or whether the days of cheating and
producing over quotas has begun anew," it reported. "The sources
warned that maybe the (price of a) barrel of oil will fall below 18,
perhaps 17.80 dlrs this week or next if there is no control on
supplies. "The sources believed a return of oil below 18 dlrs a barrel
may open the doors for international oil companies to pressure Opec
over contract prices, similar to the struggle last March," it said,
apparently referring to resistance by buyers to lift from Qatar unless
it gave price discounts. "More than one official has warned Opec would
find its solidarity under scrutiny by the end of April or start of
May," it said, noting demand usually fell with the onset of summer.
Reuter 

TEXACO FILING ADDS UNCERTAINTY IN OIL MARKET
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
U.S. oil traders said Texaco Inc's filing for protection under the
Chapter 11 bankruptcy code is adding uncertainty to an already
skittish oil market, but opinions are divided on the impact to the
market. "The filing is holding up wet barrel trading today," said one
trader. "Everyone is talking about it, assessing their company's
situations in relation to Texaco," he added. Some traders said
companies that deal with Texaco are concerned about whether they will
receive payment or supplies under the bankruptcy filing. However,
others were less worried. "The first paid will be the trading
community and those connected with Texaco in the shipping industry,"
one New York trader said. "If Texaco doesn't get crude supplies it
can't run its refineries, so its other assets would not be worth
anything," he added. Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of
the U.S. bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlement
with Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegally
interferring with Pennzoil's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co.
However, others were less worried. "The first paid will be the trading
community and those connected with Texaco in the shipping industry,"
one New York trader said. "If Texaco doesn't get crude supplies it
can't run its refineries, so its other assets would not be worth
anything," he added. Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of
the U.S. bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlement
with Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegally
interferring with Pennzoil's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co. "There
is some reluctance to trade with Texaco but no great change," said
another trader, adding that traders are tending toward prudence in
their dealings with the company. Traders are assessing whether to
require cash prepayment or letters of credit, or to continue to trade
as usual with Texaco on an open line basis, he said. Another trader,
however, described today's activity as business as usual, adding that
traders feel more secure because no liens can be put on Texaco's
assets while it is in bankruptcy. Traders said there was no apparent
effect of the Texaco filing on crude futures trading although they
said the exchange might lower Texaco's position limit and require
higher margins for Texaco's trades. New York Mercantile Exchange
President Rosemary McFadden declined to comment on Texaco's futures
trading, saying that is is proprietary information. McFadden did say,
however, that as a matter of procedure, it is possible the exchange
can lower allowable position limits or increase margin requirements
for companies that are in financial trouble. Reuter 

FAR EAST TRADERS EXPECT 20 DLR OIL IN JANUARY
    TOKYO, June 29 - 
OPEC's agreement to limit output to 16.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) for
the rest of the year should boost spot prices and enable the group to
raise its official reference price to 20 dlrs a barrel in January from
the current 18 dlrs, Far East oil industry sources said.
"Fundamentally, the market situation is bullish and the official price
will be 20 dlrs in January," a Japanese refiner said. The sources said
that in spite of over-production by OPEC members such as Iraq, the
United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Qatar, demand should exceed supply by
the fourth quarter. Spot oil prices surged on Friday in late U.S.
Trading as the market anticipated an OPEC agreement on second-half
1987 output. In early Tokyo trade, levels were firm at 17.30 dlrs for
Mideast Dubai cargoes loading next month and 19.00 dlrs for U.K.
Brent, traders said. They said they expect more foreign crudes to be
sucked into the U.S. Market as the benchmark crude West Texas
Intermediate (WTI) trades at around 20.30 dlrs. "With WTI at 20, 21 or
22 dlrs, U.S. Refiners will import Mideast and Far East crudes and
this will strengthen those grades further," said a Japanese oil
trader. Some Tokyo traders were cautious about whether thU spot market
has further upward potential in the short term, having risen strongly
on the OPEC news on Friday. "You could certainly argue that if New
York rose on that basis, there's no reason for prices to go up again
today," said one international oil trader in Tokyo. "But I think if
there's any sign of a dip, it will be bought back up again pretty
quickly," he added. One oil industry analyst concurred, "There is no
reason to expect a weak market from now on." He said he expected OPEC
to raise prices to 20 dlrs when it meets on December 9. Oil sources
said spot prices are unlikely to surge strongly in the next few months
due to cheating by some OPEC members and the likelihood that Saudi
Arabia will act as swing producer to maintain steady prices. Iraq is
currently producing around two mln barrels per day compared to its
second-half quota of 1.54 mln, they said. Its export capability will
rise to 2.5 mln bpd when a new pipeline through Turkey, comes onstream
in or around September. Qatar is said to be achieving sales of around
350,000 bpd, against its OPEC-assigned quota of 299,000, by
discounting up to 20 cents a barrel from official prices, the sources
said. Iran, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait are also cheating on
the OPEC agreement with over-production and effective price discounts
through counter-purchases, industry sources said. But they mostly
agreed that Saudi Arabia will unofficially act as swing producer,
cutting production to compensate for higher output by other members or
boosting output if spot prices rise too high too fast. Saudi Arabia
has a floating oil stockpile of 40 to 50 mln barrels. "Saudi Arabia
wants oil price stability so the stockpile may be utilized to cool
down the market if it rises too much," an oil industry analyst said.
REUTER 

SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES
    New York, Oct 19 - 
Citgo Petroleum Corp, a subsidiary of Southland Corp, said it raised
the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil by 50 cts a
barrel, effective Oct 16 The increase brings Citgo's postings for the
West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 19.00
dlrs/barrel, while Light Louisiana SWeet is now priced at 19.35 dlrs.
Citgo last changed it crude oil postings on Sept 9. Reuter 

PHILLIPS <P> RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
Phillips Petroleum Corp said it raised the contract price it will pay
for all grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective Oct 16. The
increase brings the company's postings for the West Texas Intermediate
and West Texas Sour grades to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. Phillips last
changed it crude oil postings on Sept 9. Reuter 

EXTRACTS FROM OPEC COMMUNIQUE
    VIENNA, June 29 - 
Following are extracts from the communique issued at the conclusion of
the OPEC conference here. "The conference expressed satisfaction about
the positive results of the agreement signed in December, 1986, by
which OPEC re-established the system of fixed price at a level of 18
dlrs per barrel supported by OPEC production ceilings distributed into
national production levels. "The conference noted that all market
indicators, including spot prices in the market and netback values of
all OPEC crudes, have been firming up significantly, thus
consolidating the OPEC price structure as defined by the agreement."
"The conference examined the supply/demand outlook for the second half
of the year and decided that in order to secure continued firm prices
in the market, OPEC production during the fourth quarter of 1987 will
be equal to that of the third quarter, I.E. 16.6 mln barrels per day
(bpd), distributed into the same national production levels as were
defined by the above-mentioned agreement for that quarter."
"Furthermore, the conference decided to establish a committee of five
heads of delegation to monitor the price evolution in the market in
relation to the OPEC official prices in order to secure price
stability around the opec price structure. "Should there be any
significant change in market prices, the committee would immediately
call for an extraordinary meeting of the conference with a view to
deciding on the necessary OPEC production levels during the second
half of the year, which would secure the desired market stability."
"The conference reiterated the necessity of member countries' strict
adherence to the agreement signed in December 1986, both in terms of
official price, and national production, levels. "For this purpose,
the conference decided to establish a committee of three heads of
delegation to undertake visits to member countries in order to
motivate them to comply with the terms of the agreement." "Moreover,
the conference stressed the necessity of the cooperation of the oil-
producing exporting countries outside OPEC as an essential
prerequisite for a lasting market stability. The conference,
therefore, decided to reinstate the group of five heads of delegation
established by the 77th (extraordinary) meeting of the conference in
April, 1986 to undertake the necessary contacts with those countries.
"The conference observed the continued fall in the value of the U.S.
Dollar and agreed that the matter should be studied and reported to
the next meeting of the conference." "The conference discussed the
appointment of the secretary general and decided to discuss the matter
again in its next ordinary meeting. "The conference extended the term
of office of Fadhil al-Chalabi as deputy secretary general for a
period of one year from October 7, 1987. "The next ordinary meeting of
the conference will be convened in Vienna on December 9, 1987." REUTER






IRAN, SOVIETS TO HOLD TALKS ON OIL EXCHANGE DEAL
    MOSCOW, Oct 20 - 
Iran and the Soviet Union have provisionally agreed to hold talks on a
possible exchange of Iranian crude oil for finished Soviet oil
products, an official spokesman said Tuesday. Gennady Gerasimov, chief
of the Soviet Foreign Ministry's Information Directorate, told
reporters the agreement had been reached during a visit to Moscow last
week by Iran's Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh. Gerasimov said no
date had been set for the talks, which would also study the
possibility of Soviet technical assistance for Iran's oil industry.
REUTER 

COLOMBIAN GROUP SUSPENDS BOMBINGS OF PIPELINES
    BOGOTA, June 2 - 
A Colombian group announced the suspension of its bombings of oil
pipelines pending the government's levy of a social tax on foreign
petroleum companies and an 800 mln dlrs fine on the Occidental
Petroleum Corp <OXY>. There was no indication the government would
meet the conditions demanded by the leftist National Liberation Army
(ELN). According to the state oil firm, ECOPETROL, the ELN carried out
72 attacks on petroleum pipelines between 1984 and 1986. The assaults,
the most recent launched two months ago, have caused an estimated
total of 50 mln dlrs in damage. In a communique, the ELN said it would
demand a tax of one dollar per barrel of crude oil pumped by foreign
firms as a condition for maintaining its suspension of the assaults.
Foreign oil firms pump an average of 225,083 barrels per day in
Colombia. Colombian tax authorities are investigating Occidental, a
U.S.-owned firm, for alleged tax evasion. If the charges are proven,
the firm could face a fine of up to 800 mln dlrs. The ELN demands the
government charge the penalty. Reuter 

U.S. MILITARY LEADER PREDICTS IRANIAN RESPONSE
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
William Crowe, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, predicted
Iran will retaliate for the U.S. strike against its oil platform
though he said Iranian options were limited. "They will be determined.
They will not be easily deterred, and let me stress for you that our
commitment there is not going to be risk free or casualty free." He
said the most likely Iranian response would involve terrorism or the
laying of mines. "They obviously will look for ways that are probably
more in line with the 'silent hand' than what they have tried thus
far," Crowe told an American Stock Exchange conference. He declined
comment on a reporter's query whether he favored a stronger move
against Iran than that ordered by the president. "We carried out the
operation that was decided upon and we carried it out with enthusiasm
and I think it was professionally and well done," Crowe said. Reuter 

TEXACO <TX> SAYS SOME OIL FLOWS RE-ESTABLISHED
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
Texaco Inc has re-established some key oil supply lines following
yesterday's court filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
bankrupcty code, said Elton Yates, Texaco's coordinator of worldwide
operations. "Several companies say they are willing to start trading,"
Yates told Reuters in an interview. The company last week had stated
that a number of domestic and international oil suppliers were
demanding cash for oil shipments, and in some cases, had cut supplies
altogether. Banks had also cut credit lines, it said in court filings.
Manufacturers Hanover Corp <MHC> and other banks told Texaco it would
cut off a one billion dlr credit line, Texaco said in the court
filing. Chase Manhattan Corp <CMB> and J.P. Morgan Co's <JPM> Morgan
Guaranty Trust Co asked for deposits to cover transactions, it said.
The severe conditions with suppliers and creditors arose from an
unfavorable ruling last Monday by the U.S. Supreme Court in Texaco's
ongoing dispute with Pennzoil Co <PZL> over the acquisition of Getty
Oil Co in 1984. The High Court said Texas Courts must consider
Texaco's plea to cut its 10.3 billion dlr bond while appealing the
case. "Most of the suppliers stayed with us as long as they could,"
Elton said. But following Monday's Supreme Court ruling, Texaco's
suppliers began demanding cash and halting supplies. "It wasn't until
last Wednesday that it turned into an avalanche," he said. "Supplies
were cut to the point where we could not run the system at anywhere
near capacity." He said less than half of Texaco's oil supplies had
been in jeapordy, but the cut off would have produced severe shortages
by mid-May. Now the situation appears much less severe, Elton said. It
said that Sonatrach, the Algerian national oil company, canceled
future deliveries of crude oil and natural gas, Occidental Petroleum
Co <OXY> demanded cash for crude, and Atlantic Richfield Co <ARC>
asked for special safeguards. The company also said British Petroleum
Co PLC <BP> last week refused to accept an order for fuel oil. But
Yates today said, "a big U.K. company has in fact said they would go
on supplying. They had cancelled last week." He declined to identify
the company. <Petroleos de Venezuela S.A.>, the Venezuelan state oil
company that supplies a large portion of Texaco's oil, also halted
shipments two weeks ago, Yates said. But he added that Texaco expected
to meet with the Venezuelans later today in an attempt to reestablish
that key supply line. Talks were also expected to take place with the
Algerians, he added. Bankruptcy specialists said it was likely
Texaco's chapter 11 filing would allow the company to secure its
credit lines and oil supplies that are key to the company's business.
"It will be business as usual for Texaco," said Martin Klein, a
bankruptcy attorney at the New York law firm Dreyer and Traub.
"Creditors are a nervous bunch of people," he said. "But when the dust
settles they will reevaluate the situation and will likely extend
credit to the chapter 11 company." But other officials at Texaco were
not immediately available to say whether discussions were being held
with its banks, or whether credit lines had been reestablished. Reuter


PHILLIPS PETROLEUM <P> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Phillips Petroleum Co said it raised its crude oil posted prices for
West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour by 50 cts a barrel,
effective June 17. The company said the new posted price for WTI and
WTS is 19 dlrs a barrel. The increase is in reaction to Sun Co raising
postings similarly yesterday. Reuter 

ECUADOR TO USE COLOMBIA OIL LINK FOR FIVE YEARS
    BOGOTA, April 23 - 
Ecuador will use a new pipeline link with Colombia to export crude oil
for the next five years, Colombian mines and energy minister Guillermo
Perry said. The link will be inaugurated on May 8. It was built to
allow Ecuador to resume exports of crude oil halted on March 5 by
earthquake damage to its Lago Agrio to Balao pipeline, Once that
pipeline is repaired, Ecuador will exceed its OPEC quota in order to
offset lost income and pay debts contracted with Venezuela and Nigeria
since the quake, Ecuador mines and energy minister Javier Espinosa
said. The two ministers were speaking at a news conference after
signing an agreement for joint oil exploration and exploitation of the
jungle border zone between the two nations. Drilling will begin in
September. "The agreement to transport Ecuadorean crude oil is not
only for this emergency period but for the next five years, with
possibility of an extension. Between 20,000 and 50,000 barrels per day
(bpd) will be pumped along it," Perry said. Espinosa said Ecuador
planned to pump 35 mln barrels through the link in the next five
years, at a cost of 75 cents per barrel during the first year. The
43-km link, with a maximum capacity of 50,000 bpd, will run from Lago
Agrio, the centre of of Ecuador's jungle oilfields, to an existing
Colombian pipeline that runs to the Pacific port of Tumaco. Espinosa
said the 32-km stretch of the link built on the Ecuadorean side cost
10.5 mln dlrs. Perry gave no figures for Colombia's 11 km segment but
said it was "insignificant compared with what we are going to earn."
OPEC member Ecuador was pumping around 250,000 bpd before the quake.
Lost exports of 185,000 bpd are costing it 90 mln dlrs per month,
Espinosa said. REUTER 

SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE 50 CTS/BBL
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Southland Corp's subsidiary Citgo Petroleum said it raised its posted
prices for crude oil across the board by 50 cts a barrel, effective
June 17. Citgo said its new posting for West Texas Intermediate and
West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel. Light Louisiana Sweet is now
posted at 19.35, the company said. Reuter 

US RULED OUT ATTACK ON IRANIAN SILKWORMS
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
U.S. military planners ruled out Iran's Silkworm missiles as a target
in the retaliatory attack mounted on Monday for fear of being drawn
more deeply into the Iran-Iraq war, defense and Middle East experts
said. U.S. naval forces destroyed an offshore oil platform and raided
another in what the administration called a "measured and appropriate
response" to an Iranian Silkworm missile attack last Friday on a
U.S.-flagged tanker in Kuwaiti waters. Private analysts generally
agreed that going after the rig rather than an onshore economic or
military target such as Silkworm launch sites reflected a careful bid
by Washington to limit the political, military and diplomatic fallout
both at home and in the Gulf. "It simply demonstrated the United
States will take military action when they (Iran) take military
action," Norman Polmar, a defense analyst and author, said. He said
hitting the platforms had spared Iran the embarrassment of casualties
on its own soil, possibly avoiding an escalating spiral of attack and
counterattack. In addition, it minimized the risk to U.S. forces and
the potential embarrassment of any losses, including aircraft that
could have been shot down had they taken part in an attack. Anthony
Cordesman, author of a new book on the Iran-Iraq war, said the United
States apparently chose a limited target to keep alive the possibility
that U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar might still
persuade Iran to accept a Security Council call for a ceasefire. "We
want the U.N. peace initiative to work if there's any chance at all,"
he said, adding that the action made it clear tougher steps would
follow if Iran to attack Gulf shipping. In targeting an oil rig --
albeit one said by the Pentagon to have been turned into a military
command post -- Washington also sent a message that it might be
willing to attack Iran's economic lifeline. Pentagon officials said
the platform had been used as a base for Iranian raids against
shipping in the lower Gulf. "We have chosen a military target, but we
also have shown Iran that we are willing to interfere with its oil-
exporting capabilities," Cordesman said. He predicted the United
States would respond to any future major Iranian challenges by hitting
Iran's naval base at Bandar Abbas on the Straits of Hormuz, followed
by mining the approaches to Iran's oil export terminal on Kharg
Island. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Monday the United
States did not seek further confrontation with Iran, "but we will be
prepared to meet any escalation of military action by Iran with
stronger countermeasures." Reuter 

UNION PACIFIC <UNP> RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Union Pacific Resources, formerly Champlin Petroleum, said it raised
posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective yesterday.
The price increase brings West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark
grade, to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The posted price increase follows a
similar move by several other oil companies. Sun Co was the first to
raise crude oil postings yesterday afternoon and today many other
companies are following. The last price increase made by oil companies
was around May 22. Reuter 

OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF SALE POSTPONED
    ANCHORAGE, Oct 20 - 
Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas lease sale number 97 in the
Beaufort Sea, tentatively schedualed for January 1988 has been
postponed, the U.S. Department of Interior said. Alan Powers, chief of
the Minerals Maanagement Service for the department, said the delay is
to have more time to study the effects of drilling noise on whale
migrations. Powers said the state has asked for additional noise data
for the sale area off Alaska's North Slope. A new date has not been
set, but it will likely be no sooner than next March, Powers said.
Some 3,930 blocks encompassing about 21 mln acres are involved in the
proposed sale. The area is between three and 160 miles off the
northern coast of Alaska in the Artic Ocean between the Canadian
border and 162 degrees west longitude. Reuter 

PETRO-CANADA RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 32 CTS CANADIAN/BBL.
SWEET CRUDE AT 25.60 DLRS CANADIAN/BBL.




STATOIL AWARDS VESLEFRIKK OIL FIELD CONTRACTS
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
Norwegian state oil company Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap (Statoil)
signed contracts worth a total of 1.5 billion Norwegian crowns in
connection with the development of the Veslefrikk oil field, Statoil
said. Moss Rosenberg Verft of Stavanger has been awarded a contract to
convert the the drilling platform West Vision to a floating production
platform. The work is to be completed in the summer of 1989. Aker
Verdal has been awarded a contract for the engineering, purchasing and
construction of the steel jacket for the wellhead platform, also to be
completed in 1989, Statoil said. Reuter 

NORWAY BOOSTS OIL OUTPUT BY 22 PCT IN SEPTEMBER
    OSLO, Oct 20 - 
Norway's September oil output rose by 22.2 pct to 1.07 mln barrels per
day (bpd) from 830,492 bpd in August, according to a Reuter survey of
firms operating here. Operators said the sharp rise reflected higher
output at several of Norway's biggest fields and resumed production at
fields shut down for 27 days in August for the Ekofisk field rescue
project. Industry analysts said the increase did not exceed Norway's
voluntary move to curb by 7.5 pct planned growth in its oil output, a
move designed to back OPEC-led efforts to stabilise oil prices by
limiting supplies to world crude markets. Norway, not an OPEC member,
decided in June to extend the production restraints, enforced since
February 1 1987, on all its North Sea fields for the rest of the year.
Oil Minister Arne Oeien said last month he expected Norway would
extend into 1988 its policy of slowed production growth. The biggest
increase was seen on the Ekofisk field, which pumped 168,023 bpd in
September against 48,195 bpd in August, field operator Phillips
Petroleum Norway Inc said. Ekofisk and the nearby Valhall and Ula
fields, which use the Ekofisk pipeline, were shut down for most of
August while Phillips raised Ekofisk platforms to counter seabed
subsidence. BP Petroleum Development Norway Ltd, operator of the Ula
field, said September output rose to 86,727 bpd after dropping to
27,237 bpd in August because of the shutdown. Valhall, operated by
Amoco Norway A/S, flowed 74,694 bpd last month compared with 69,748
bpd in August, the company said. September production was also sharply
higher at the Statfjord field. Norway's 84 pct share of Statfjord,
which extends into the British North Sea sector, was 611,138 bpd
against 552,646 bpd in August, operator Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap
A/S (Statoil) said. Norway's 22.2 pct share of the Murchison field
which, like Statfjord, extends into the British sector, yielded 15,388
bpd in September, a slight 920 bpd decrease from the previous month,
Norwegian partners on the British-operated field said. Statoil boosted
output at its Gullfaks field to 109,670 bpd in September, compared
with 100,188 in August. Norsk Hydro, operator of the Oseberg field,
said test output at the field from the mobile production ship Petro
Jarl totalled 1,719 bpd last month, down sharply from 16,170 bpd in
August. Hydro said the drop was caused by failure to bring on stream a
second well, cutting September production to just two days. REUTER 

IRAQ REJECTS NEW OPEC OIL QUOTA
    BAGHDAD, June 29 - 
Iraq has rejected its new OPEC production quota set in Vienna for the
second half of this year, the official Iraqi news agency INA reported.
It quoted Oil Minister Issam Abdul-Rahim al-Chalabi, who returned
Sunday, as saying "Iraq will continue to adhere to its position
considering itself as not included in the agreement." Last December,
Iraq rejected its assigned first half 1987 quota of 1.466 mln bpd and
demanded a share equal to the 2.255 mln bpd quota set for Iran, its
enemy in the nearly seven-year-old Gulf war. The accord reached by
OPEC ministers in Vienna Saturday set an output ceiling of 16.6 mln
bpd for the group's 13 members from July to December, raising Iraq's
share to 1.54 mln bpd and Iran's to 2.369 mln. Reuter 

DOE RESOLVES ISSUES WITH ROYAL DUTCH <RD> UNIT
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
The Energy Department said it had approved in final form an agreement
that resolves all remaining issues with Shell Oil Co over oil pricing
and allocation controls that ended in 1981. Under the agreement, The
Royal Dutch/Shell Group unit agreed to pay 20 mln dlrs to settle
refiner pricing issues and 160 mln dlrs to settle crude oil pricing
issues, DOE said. DOE said that before making the pact final, it
modified it to reflect Shell's compliance with the Tertiary Incentive
Program, a provision not in the version published last Dec 31. reuter


U.K. COURT RULES AGAINST RTZ ON OIL FIELD COSTS
    LONDON, June 18 - 
The U.K. High Court dismissed an appeal by Rio Tinto-Zinc Corp Plc's
<RTZL.L> RTZ Oil and Gas Ltd unit and ruled that the financial
provisions a company makes for the future cost of abandoning an oil
field are not tax deductible, the Press Association reported. The
company was appealing against a decision of the Tax Commissioners that
any such provision was a capital expenditure, not a revenue
expenditure, and was not deductible. The court was told that since
1976 the company had made an annual provision of around 750,000 stg
for the eventual cost of abandoning a rig. An RTZ spokesman said the
ruling was not worrying as the subsidiary had assumed that the
provisions were not deductible from corporation tax payable. It would
have been a bonus if the company had won but all budgeting had been on
the assumption that it would not, he said. Oil analysts said that
RTZ's assumption of liability was shared by the industry as a whole.
The ruling appeared to mean that tax relief on the expensive process
of abandoning rigs would apply when the expense occurred, not when
provisions for future expenses were built into the accounts, one
analyst added. Reuter 

PETRO-CANADA CRUDE UP 32 CTS CANADIAN/BBL
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Petro-Canada, a state-owned oil company, raised the posting prices of
sweet and sour crude oils 32 cts Canadian per barrel, effective today,
the company said. The change brings the price of light sweet crude to
26.50 dlrs Canadian per barrel and the price of light sour crude to
23.77 dlrs Canadian a barrel. The crude oils are from Edmonton/Swann
Hills. Reuter 

ASAMERA <ASM> COMPLETES REFINERY SALE
    CALGARY, Alberta, June 2 - 
Asamera Inc said wholly owned Asamera Oil (U.S.) Inc concluded the
25.25 mln U.S. dlr sale of its Denver refinery to Total Petroleum
North America Ltd. In addition, Total is purchasing crude oil and
refined product inventories at market value, Asamera said. Reuter 

MURPHY OIL <MUR> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Murphy Oil said it increased its crude oil posted prices by 50 cts a
barrel, effective June 17. The company said its new posting for West
Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel. Light
Louisiana Sweet crude is now 19.35 dollars a barrel, the company said.
Increases follow a general trend in the industry started yesterday by
Sun Co. Reuter 

TEXACO <TXC> CANADA TO RAISE CRUDE OIL POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, June 19 -- 
Texaco Inc's Texaco Canada said it will raise postings for its
Edmonton/Swann Hills crude by 24 canadian cts a barrel, effective June
20. The company said the new posting for Edmonton/Swann Hills will be
25.60 dlrs a barrel. The price hike follows a round of crude oil price
increases started late June 17 by Sun Co. The other major canadian
crude suppliers raised prices June 18. Reuter 





ECUADOR TO PRODUCE ABOVE OPEC QUOTA - MINISTER
    QUITO, June 29 - 
Ecuador will produce crude oil in excess of its 221,000-bpd OPEC quota
during the second half of this year, Energy Minister Fernando Santos
Alvite told a news conference. Ecuador plans to produce 280,000 bpd in
August, rising to 320,000 bpd next January, the minister said. "We
will be producing more than the quota to pay off the crude and
products we have been lent by Venezuela, Nigeria and Kuwait and to
compensate for the crude we have been unable to produce during the
past few months," he said. Earthquake damage to a pipeline sharply cut
Ecuadorean production from March to May this year. Santos said the
move had been explained to fellow OPEC members during last week's
meeting in Vienna, when an increase in Ecuador's quota to 221,000 bpd
from 210,000 was approved. "They understood our position and we
believe we remain within the spirit of the (quota) agreement," he
said. Immediately before the March quake Ecuadorean production was
250,000-260,000 bpd, with 144,000 bpd exported. While its production
was down, Venezuela, Nigeria and Kuwait loaned Ecuador a total 12 mln
barrels of crude and four mln barrels of products, Santos said. Reuter


MARATHON RAISED CRUDE POSTED PRICES BY 50 CTS A BARREL EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.




SAUDI ARABIA WANTS TO INCREASE OIL SALES TO JAPAN
    TOKYO, April 17 - 
Saudi Arabia hopes to increase the volume of its oil exports to Japan
through expanding bilateral trade, Saudi Arabian Interior Minister
Naif bin Abdul-Aziz said. He told a Tokyo reception his country hopes
to raise crude and products exports to Japan to earlier levels, but
did not elaborate. To promote trade, Saudi Arabia is inviting Japanese
industries to do business there, he said. Japanese firms now have
long-term contracts to import a total of 150,000 barrels per day of
Saudi crude. REUTER 

OPEC PRESIDENT LUKMAN EXPECTS SHORT, CALM MEETING
    LAGOS, June 19 - 
OPEC conference president Rilwanu Lukman said he expects next week's
ministerial meeting in Vienna to be brief and calm and that OPEC's
current price and production agreement may only need a slight review.
"I expect the meeting in Vienna to be short and calm," Lukman, who is
also Nigerian oil minister, told reporters here ahead of his departure
on Sunday for the conference, which starts June 25. "We already have
an agreement which may need only a slight review," Lukman said. The
agreement reached at a long session of OPEC ministers in December last
year pegged the group's crude oil output at 15.8 mln bpd for first
half 1987 at fixed prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel. Since then
prices have risen from 15 dlrs in December to just above the official
OPEC levels, with oil industry analysts firmly convinced the
organisation will maintain the agreement to keep the market stable. "I
myself believe that OPEC will tend to take a position to strengthen
the gains we have made so far," Lukman said. He declined to say if the
current ceiling should be maintained or raised to 16.6 mln bpd for the
third quarter and 18.3 mln for the fourth as provisionally agreed last
December. "Whatever decision we arrive at will be guided by our
collective will to keep the market strong," he said. He said non-OPEC
member Norway, which he visited two weeks ago, had pledged further
cooperation with the group and this was significant for its members.
Lukman said heavy destocking by consumers early this year when OPEC's
fixed price regime came into effect and a restocking now for the
winter was responsible for current market strength. Reuter 

INDONESIA CUTS JULY CRUDE SUPPLIES TO JAPAN
    TOKYO, June 18 - 
Indonesia's state oil company, Pertamina, has informed its affiliated
Japanese companies that crude oil supplies will be 40 pct less than
contractual volumes in July, a spokesman for an affiliated company
said. He said the allocations were in line with Indonesia's production
ceiling under its current OPEC quota, so they might be increased if
OPEC ratifies a production rise next week. Allocations of Indonesia's
main traded crude, Minas, had been cut by 50 pct and Duri by 38 pct,
he said. Last month contractual volumes were cut by 30 pct.
Contractual volumes assume no production ceiling. Oil traders said
Indonesian grades were already trading above their official selling
prices (osp) on the spot market due to strong demand from Japan and
the U.S. And tight supplies. A cargo of Duri loading in July was
reportedly traded yesterday at 70 cents over its osp of 15.60 dlrs per
barrel and Minas is trading about 20 cents higher, they said. REUTER 

GHANA TO BUY CRUDE OIL FROM IRAN
    LONDON, April 8 - 
Ghana will import 15,000 tonnes of crude oil annually from Iran under
an agreement reached in Tehran today, the Iranian news agency IRNA
reported. The agency, received in London, said the accord was reached
between Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh and a visiting
Ghanaian delegation headed by Foreign Minister Obed Asamoah. IRNA said
that under the agreement, Iran will also provide technical and
scientific assistance in manpower training and oil exploitation,
production and refining. Reuter 

ARCO RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES 50 CTS BARREL, TODAY, WTI TO 19.00




TURKEY CALLS FOR DIALOGUE TO SOLVE DISPUTE
    ANKARA, April 8 - 
Turkey said today its disputes with Greece, including rights on the
continental shelf in the Aegean Sea, should be solved through
negotiations. A Foreign Ministry statement said the latest crisis
between the two NATO members stemmed from the continental shelf
dispute and an agreement on this issue would effect the security,
economy and other rights of both countries. "As the issue is basicly
political, a solution can only be found by bilateral negotiations,"
the statement said. Greece has repeatedly said the issue was legal and
could be solved at the International Court of Justice. The two
countries approached armed confrontation last month after Greece
announced it planned oil exploration work in the Aegean and Turkey
said it would also search for oil. A face-off was averted when Turkey
confined its research to territorrial waters. "The latest crises
created an historic opportunity to solve the disputes between the two
countries," the Foreign Ministry statement said. Turkey's ambassador
in Athens, Nazmi Akiman, was due to meet Prime Minister Andreas
Papandreou today for the Greek reply to a message sent last week by
Turkish Prime Minister Turgut Ozal. The contents of the message were
not disclosed. Reuter 

SECURITY COUNCIL CALLS TALKS AFTER GULF ATTACK
    UNITED NATIONS, Oct 19 - 
The U.N. Security Council was called to a private meeting on Monday
for consultations following the United States attack on an Iranian oil
platform. Meanwhile, a U.N. spokesman said that as far as he knew a
report to the council and Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar on
the action had not been received from the Americans. In Washington,
President Reagan said the United Nations was being informed of the
attack under the provision of the U.N. Charter regarding notification
of actions taken under the right of self-defense. The U.N. spokesman,
Francois Giuliani, said Perez de Cuellar had no comment on the attack,
taken in response to Iranian action against an American-owned tanker
last week, but was trying to find out "what actually happened." Calls
to Iran's U.N. commission elicited no response. Reuter 

IRAN FOREIGN MINISTER TELLS CUBA OF GULF SITUATION
    HAVANA, Oct 19 - 
Iranian foreign minister ali akbar velayati, here on a two-day
official visit, informed cuban foreign ministry officials on monday on
the tense situation in the gulf, diplomatic sources said. They said
the envoy's trip, to be followed from tuesday by a visit to nicaragua,
could be linked to a possible mediation of the non-aligned movement in
the seven-year-old iran-iraq war but they ruled out any prominent
cuban role in it. Velayati could not be reached for comment on the
U.S. Attack on an abandoned iranian oil rig on monday which tehran
vowed to avenge. Reuter 

ARCO <ARC> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Atlantic Richfield's Arco Oil and Gas Co said it increased contract
prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective today. Arco said
the 50 cts increase brings its posted price for West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade, to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The
price of West Texas Sour was increased to 18.10 dlrs. Light Louisiana
Sweet was raised to 19.35 dlrs. The price was last changed on
September 30. Reuter 

UNOCAL <UCL> RAISED CRUDE OIL POSTINGS BY 50 CTS/BBL
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Unocal said it raised its postings for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel,
effective June 17. The company said it is now posting West Texas
Intermediate and West Texas Sour at 19 dlrs a barrel. Unocal said its
new Light Louisiana Sweet posted price is 19.35 dlrs a barrel. the
price move follows a wave of increases initiated by Sun Co yesterday.
Reuter 

TRITON <OIL> SAYS PARIS BASIN RESERVES UP 39 PCT
    DALLAS, April 13 - 
Triton Energy Corp said proven reserves of the Villespedue oil field
in France's Paris Basin were estimated at a total of 67.5 mln barrels
on March one, up 39 pct from 48.7 mln barrels on May 31, 1986. Triton
said its 60 pct owned <Triton Europe Plc> subsidiary has a 50 pct
interest in the field which is located 50 miles east of Paris. The
other 50 pct is held by <Total Exploration S.A.>, the field's
operator. Reuter 

MAJOR U.S. OIL PIPELINE SHUT DOWN BY FLOODS
    NEW YORK, June 1 - 
Flooding in the Red River on the Texas/Oklahoma border has shut down
the Basin Pipeline, a 24-inch pipeline that transports as much as
300,000 barrels per day of sweet and sour crudes from Texas to
Cushing, Okla, a Texaco Pipeline Co spokesman confirmed. "The water is
rushing by so fast that we can't get any divers down to assess the
damage but there is some possibility that the pipeline could be up by
the end of the week," a company source said. The pipeline transmits
roughly two-thirds sour crude and one-third sweet crude oil from the
Midland, Texas region. Texaco sources said that if the pipeline
service is restored by Friday there would be little problem in
restoring oil which has been lost to the flood. "But if the pipeline
is down more than 10 days it will be difficult to make up without
prorationing and we would not like to proration this pipeline, if we
don't have to." The Basin Pipeline is jointly owned by Atlantic
Richfield Corp <ARC>, Shell Oil Co, a subsidiary of the Royal
Dutch/Shell Group <RD> and Texaco Inc <TX>, which is the pipeline's
operator. Peter Beutel, analyst at Elders Futures Inc, said crude oil
futures contracts on New York Mercantile Exchange rose to new highs
this afternoon following news of the pipeline break. July crude
futures of West Texas Intermediate traded up to 19.60 dlrs a barrel, a
rise of more than 20 cts. Cash market prices also firmed on the news
with sellers of WTI raising offers to 19.60 dlrs a barrel. Sour
crudes, which would be most affected by the pipeline shutdown,
however, were slow to react to the news with West Texas Sour and
Alaska North Slope holding 50 cts to one dlr a barrel below WTI,
respectively. Dan Stevens, manager of public and government affairs at
Texaco, said the company hopes to fix the pipeline in five days but
that will depend on when the water level of the Red River recedes.
There is already evidence that the water level is dropping and it
appears the rain has stopped in the area affecting the pipeline,
Stevens said. He said the segment of the pipeline that was damaged was
underground and at a distance from the Red River that flooded. The
pipeline runs over the Red River and under the subsoil nearby,
according to Stevens. He said some of this subsoil was apparently
washed away. The potential for environmental damage is being
downplayed at this time despite the volume of oil that runs through
this line. Texaco's Stevens said that aerial surveillance has not
found any crude on the water in the river or in Lake Texoma, which is
nearby. Reuter 

AMPLE SUPPLIES LIMIT U.S. STRIKE'S OIL PRICE IMPACT
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
Ample supplies of OPEC crude weighing on world markets helped limit
and then reverse oil price gains that followed the U.S. Strike on an
Iranian oil platform in the Gulf earlier on Monday, analysts said.
December loading rose to 19.65 dlrs, up 45 cents before falling to
around 19.05/15 later, unchanged from last Friday. "Fundamentals are
awful," said Philip Lambert, analyst with stockbrokers Kleinwort
Grieveson, adding that total OPEC production in the first week of
October could be above 18.5 mln bpd, little changed from September
levels. Peter Nicol, analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank, said OPEC
production could be about 18.5-19.0 mln in October. Reuter and
International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates put OPEC September
production at 18.5 mln bpd. The U.S. Attack was in retaliation of last
Friday's hit of a Kuwaiti oil products tanker flying the U.S. Flag,
the Sea Isle City. It was struck by a missile, believed to be Iranian,
in Kuwaiti waters, and was the first hit on a U.S. Flag commercial
vessel in the seven year Iran/Iraq war. The U.S. Owned Liberian flag
tanker Sungari was hit in the area on Thursday, also believed struck
by an Iranian missile. Refiners were not significant purchasers of
physical oil on Monday as a result increased Gulf tension following
the U.S. Attack, analysts said. They said a closure of the Strait of
Hormuz, through which around eight mln bpd passes, isnlikely because
it is not in the interests of the U.S. Or Iran, they said. Any threat
to oil supplies would stem from an increase in the number of tanker
attacks as part of a widening of Gulf hostilities, analysts said. But
they saw the U.S. Strike as a limited reply to Iranian missile
attacks, with some describing it as responsible. Geoffrey Pyne,
analyst at stockbrokers Phillips and Drew, said he was impressed by
the sensible U.S. Response. "The U.S. Has thought carefully about what
would correspond to Iranian agression. They have proved to the
Iranians that any further action will be met with a like-for-like
response. Today's action by the U.S. Was not escalatory," Pyne said.
Kleinwort Grieveson's Lambert said the U.S. Strike was "a responsible
retaliation," with the U.S. Apparently indicating to Iran that it
could increase the severity of its attacksf Iran chose to raise the
level of conflict. Chase Manhattan's Nicol took a different view,
however. He said he was unable to see what the U.S. Had achieved as
Arab states such as Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, whose interests the U.S.
Is supposedly defending, will feel less secure as a result of the U.S.
Attack and fear some sort of Iranian retaliation. The initial upward
market move this morning reflected a strong speculative reaction to
rumours of a U.S. Attack which was thought at one stage to have been
against Iranian missile launchers on the Faw Peninsula, close to
Kuwait, analysts said. The later downtrend followed confirmation of a
U.S. Navy attack on an Iranian oil platform by the U.S. Defence
Secretary Caspar Weinburger. Market operators were able to evaluate
the situation in the Gulf on the basis of confirmed fact, and finding
it less serious than first thought, took profits, taking prices lower,
analysts and traders said. REUTER 

GULF CANADA <GOC> ACQUIRES SUEZ OIL STAKE
    CALGARY, Alberta, April 13 - 
Gulf Canada Corp said it acquired a 25 pct working interest in the
Gulf of Suez oil concession for undisclosed terms. The company said
its agreement with operator Conoco Hurghada Inc and Hispanoil covered
the 168,374-acre East Hurghada offshore concession. It said a 15.6 mln
U.S. dlr four-well program was planned for 1987. After the
acquisition, which is subject to Egyptian government approval, working
interests in the Hurghada block will be Conoco Hurghada at 45 pct,
Hispanoil 30 pct and Gulf Canada the balance. Reuter 

COMPROMISE SEEN LIKELY OVER CONOCO-STATOIL DISPUTE
    OSLO, June 1 - 
Norway is expected to seek a compromise solution to defuse a row
between Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S <STAT.OL> (Statoil) and
Conoco Norge A/S over which firm will operate the Heidrun oil field,
government sources said. The sources, who asked not to be named, said
the government will likely recommend that Conoco be allowed to
continue as the field's operator through the development phase, with
Statoil taking over only after production starts in the early 1990s.
Oil Minister Arne Oeien told Reuters the government had today discused
the Heidrun matter but that no final decision had been taken and
several questions remained unresolved. It was unlikely the government
would announce its decision on Heidrun operatorship until after
Thursday's cabinet meeting and after discussing a proposed solution
with both companies, the sources added. This spring Norway's state-
owned oil company Statoil exercised an option in the Heidrun field
exploration license that, if approved by the government, would allow
it to relieve Conoco as Heidrun operator, a move sharply criticised by
Conoco. Heidrun is often cited by the government and industry as the
most likely candidate for the first field development project on the
Haltenbanken exploration tract off central Norway. Reuter 

ECUADOR'S CEPE NAMES NEW HEAD
    QUITO, Oct 20 - 
The state-run Ecuadorean State Oil Corporation (CEPE) has named Jaime
Sanchez Valdivieso as its new general manager replacing Carlos Romo
Leroux, a CEPE spokesman said. The spokesman told Reuters Sanchez is a
46-year-old civil engineer who formerly headed CEPE's administration
and finances division. Romo Leroux resigned last week for "personal
and family" reasons, the spokesman said. Reuter 

BASIN PIPELINE TEXAS/OKLA BORDER WASHED OUT BY FLOODS SOME 300,000 BPD CRUDE AFFECTED.




ABU DHABI MARKETING SAID NOT BREACHING OPEC PACT
    ABU DHABI, April 13 - 
A senior Abu Dhabi oil official said in remarks published today the
emirate, largest producer in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), was
succeeding in marketing its crude oil without breaching OPEC accords.
Khalaf al-Oteiba, Marketing Director at the Abu Dhabi National Oil Co
(ADNOC), told the company's Petroleum Community magazine ADNOC was
also keen to keep good customer relations. "The company will maintain
its dialogue with and care for its customers in accordance with market
conditions...And take necessary steps to guarantee marketing its
production," he said. "The present oil marketing policy of ADNOC is
based on adherence to OPEC decisions of December 1986 to control
production and establish a new pricing system in an attempt to
stabilize the market," he added. OPEC agreed last December to limit
production to 15.8 mln bpd and return to fixed prices averaging 18
dlrs a barrel. Oteiba said stabilization of the oil market in the
future depended on how much discipline OPEC showed. Oteiba said last
year, when world oil prices dropped, was ADNOC's most difficult ever
but "a practical and flexible pricing policy was implemented to relate
to the changed market environment." He said crude oil sales last year
jumped to an average 609,000 bpd of which 73 pct was exported. Refined
product sales totalled eight mln metric tonnes, of which 67 pct was
exported. In 1985, ADNOC marketed a total of 476,000 bpd of crude oil
and 7.2 mln tonnes of refined products. Reuter 

VENEZUELA BUDGET SEES 16.35 DLRS OIL PRICE
    CARACAS, June 29 - 
Venezuela's government tomorrow presents a 1988 budget proposal for
183.432 billion bolivars, based upon an oil price of 16.35 dlrs per
barrel, finance minister Manuel Azpurua said. Azpurua told reporters
after a cabinet meeting the new budget projects ordinary income of
149.925 billion bolivars and extraordinary income of 34.186 billion.
Oil revenues are expected to produce 92.014 billion, or 61 pct of the
total. The finance minister said the oil revenue projection is based
on an average price of 16.35 dlrs per barrel in 1988. Venezuelan oil
through the first half of 1987 has averaged 16. 20 dlrs per barrel,
according to the state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. Reuter


CHEVRON N.SEA FIND MAY HOLD 300 MLN BBLS -ANALYSTS
    LONDON, June 29 - 
A North Sea oil find announced by Chevron Corp's <CHV> Chevron
Exploration North Sea Ltd may indicate a new field with recoverable
crude oil reserves of 300 mln barrels, industry analysts said. Chevron
said a sidetrack well on block 16/26 on the U.K. Continental shelf
tested 9,000 barrels per day (bpd) of 20 API crude oil from the
tertiary "Alba" sand through a three-inch surface choke. "The
estimated amount of oil at the Alba field is around 320 mln barrels,"
Paul Spedding of stockbroker Kleinwort Grieveson and Co told Reuters.
He said industry estimates put the total reserves at the field at over
one billion barrels, but given the low gravity of oil, the recovery
rate would be expected to be around 20-25 pct. Analysts said the
results were encouraging, but the potential difficulty of operating
and recovering oil in the field was shown by the fact that the first
well had to be plugged and a sidetrack drilled. "The field seems to be
shallow and widespread, which will require a multi-platform
development in recovery, pushing costs up," Christopher Osborne of
stockbroker Hoare Govett said. Most analysts said that although the
low gravity of the oil found would require additional costs in
recovery, the test well showed that it flows well. "Although the
gravity of oil at the field seems to be low, it seems to flow quite
well and around 300 mln barrels could be recovered," Carol Bell of
Phillips and Drew told Reuters. However, Chevron officials declined to
comment on the analysts' reserve estimates. They said that without
further research and drilling in the area this summer, they would not
disclose any reserve figures. Analysts said that if the field were
declared commercial and developed, there would be a ready local market
for the heavy crude it produced. "Most refineries are now upgraded to
refine heavy oils and the price differentials between heavy and light
crudes are a lot narrower today," Osborne said. Chevron operates the
block on behalf of 16 companies which include British Petroleum
Development Ltd, DSM Hydrocarbons (UK) Ltd, Enterprise Oil (TNS) Ltd,
Marathon Int. Pet. (GB) Ltd and Phillips Petroleum Co U.K. Ltd. Reuter


IMPERIAL OIL <IMO.A> RAISES CRUDE 32 CANADIAN CTS
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Canadian Imperial Oil, 70 pct Exxon owned, said it raised its posting
for light sweet crude oil at Edmonton by 32 canadian cts a barrel,
effective today. The company said its new posting for light sweet
crude oil at Edmonton is 25.60 canadian dlrs a barrel. Reuter 

SOVIET 1988 OIL OUTPUT TARGET AT 625 MLN TONNES
    MOSCOW, Oct 20 - 
The Soviet oil production target for 1988 has been set at 625 mln
tonnes, a rise of eight mln tonnes over this year's planned output.
Oil Minister Vasily Dinkov announced the figure on Tuesday at the
Supreme Soviet, the country's nominal parliament. He said a new
development strategy, fuller use of oil deposits and better housing
and pay for oilmen had allowed an upsurge in the oil industry after
three years of stagnation which began in late 1983. Last year the
Soviet Union produced 615 mln tonnes of oil, slightly short of the
target of 616.7 mln. January-September figures released at the weekend
showed Soviet oil output in the first nine months of this year at 467
mln tonnes. The 1987 target is 617 million. Dinkov said the Soviet
Union would develop 38 new oil deposits in the coming year. He called
for speedier geolog prospecting across the country to spur the oil
industry. The Supreme Soviet convened on Monday to endorse the 1988
budget and plan. The session is expected to end on Tuesday. REUTER 

IMPERIAL OIL RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 32 CANADIAN
CTS/BBL, LIGHT SWEET NOW 25.60





COASTAL <CGP> RAISES OIL POSTED PRICES
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Coastal Corp said that effective October 16 it had raised posted
prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel. The increase brings West
Texas Intermediate to 9.00 dlrs a barrel and West Texas Sour to 18.10
dlrs a barrel. Sun Co <SUN> announced that it would make a 50 cts a
barrel increase late Friday bringing WTI to 19.00 dlrs a barrel and
traders said that other oil companies could be expected to increase
prices. Reuter 

CONGRESSMAN SAYS U.S. UNPREPARED FOR OIL CUTOFF
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
Rep. Mike Synar said today that while President Reagan is ready to use
military force to protect Kuwait tankers in the Gulf, the United
States is ill-prepared at home to deal with a new energy crisis.
Synar, Democrat of Oklahoma, made his remarks in comments on a study
by the General Accounting Office (GAO) on the U.S. participation in
the 1985 test of the emergency oil sharing program of the
International Energy Agency. The IEA, an alliance of 21 oil consuming
countries, was formed after the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo to find ways
to deal with any future oil cutoff. Synar said, "the president is
prepared to take military action to protect Kuwaiti oil tankers but
has been unwilling to take less dangerous, equally-important action to
prepare our nation for the next energy crisis." Reagan said the U.S.
military would protect Kuwaiti oilers to assure the West of a
continuing supply of Middle East oil, increasingly being threatened by
the Iranian-Iraqi war. Synar, who asked for the GAO report after
criticism of U.S. action in a previous IEA test, said the United
States successfully advocated a test limited to training participants
in oil sharing procedures and the system's mechanical aspects. Reuter


SHELL CANADA <SHC> RAISES CRUDE 32 CTS CANADIAN
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Shell Canada <SHC>, whose majority interest is owned by the Royal
Dutch/Shell Group of companies, raised the postings of light sweet and
sour crude oil from Edmonton/Swann Hills 32 Canadian cts a barrel,
effective today. The new price for light sweet crude oil is 25.60
Canadian dlrs a barrel while the new price for light sweet sour crude
is 24.08 Canadian dlrs a barrel. The Royal Dtuch/Shell Group owns 72
pct of Shell Canada and public shareholders, primarily Canadian, own
the remaining 28 pct of the company, a Shell Canada spokesman said.
Reuter 

LA LAND <LLX>,DU PONT <DD>GET EXPLORATION TRACTS
    NEW ORLEANS, April 9 - 
Louisiana Land and Exploration Co said it, Du Pont Co's Conoco Inc
subsidiary and <Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V.> have been offered four
exploration blocks offshore The Netherlands. Louisiana Land said
Blocks Q4a, E12c and E15b were offered to the group in which Conoco
has a 67.5 pct interest, Louisiana Land 20 pct and Orange-Nassau 12.5
pct, while this group along with a consortium headed by Pennzoil Co
<PZL> were offered Block Q5c. The offers were the result of
applications submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the
Netherlands Sixth Offshore Licensing Round. Louisiana Land said the
Conoco group intends to pro
MEES NEWSLETTER SAYS OMAN OFFERS OIL DISCOUNTS
     NICOSIA, June 2 - 
Oman has granted term crude oil customers retroactive discounts from
official prices of 30 to 38 cents per barrel on liftings made during
February, March and April, the weekly newsletter Middle East Economic
Survey (MEES) said. MEES said the price adjustments, arrived at
through negotiations between the Omani oil ministry and companies
concerned, are designed to compensate for the difference between
market-related prices and the official price of 17.63 dlrs per barrel
adopted by non-OPEC Oman since February. REUTER 

SHELL CANADA RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTING 32 CANADIAN CTS/BBL




SAUDI ARABIA OPPOSES DRASTIC CHANGE IN OIL PRICE
    RIYADH, June 2 - 
Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Hisham Nazer said Riyadh would not agree
to a cut in oil prices and would not accept a "mad" increase that
would drive consumers away. He told al-Riyadh newspaper, "Saudi Arabia
follows a balanced petroleum policy. It does not approve of a decrease
in prices from current levels and it also does not accept a mad
increase that would drive consumers away and make them try and find
alternative sources (for energy)." OPEC agreed last December to cut
production after world prices hit new lows in 1986. They agreed on a
pricing system aimed to stabilize the market around 18 dlrs a barrel.
OPEC is scheduled to meet in Vienna on June 25, where it will review
its current oil price and production policy. Saudi Arabia's King Fahd
said last month that he wanted oil prices to remain stable for the
next two years. Saudi Arabia is the architect of the current pricing
and production pact, which is backed by Kuwait and the UAE. The
current pact set a production ceiling for first half 1987 of 15.8 mln
bpd, and implemented fixed prices based on an 18 dlrs a barrel
average. REUTER 

NATIONAL INTERGROUP <NII> UNIT RAISES CRUDE PRICES
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Permian Corp, a subsidiary of National Intergroup, said it raised its
crude oil postings by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. the company
said its new posted price for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas
Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel, while Light Louisiana Sweet is now 19.35.
The price hike follows other increases industrywide. Reuter 

IRAQI TROOPS REPORTED PUSHING BACK IRANIANS
    BAGHDAD, April 8 - 
Iraq said today its troops were pushing Iranian forces out of
positions they had initially occupied when they launched a new
offensive near the southern port of Basra early yesterday. A High
Command communique said Iraqi troops had won a significant victory and
were continuing to advance. Iraq said it had foiled a three-pronged
thrust some 10 km (six miles) from Basra, but admitted the Iranians
had occupied ground held by the Mohammed al-Qassem unit, one of three
divisions attacked. The communique said Iranian Revolutionary Guards
were under assault from warplanes, helicopter gunships, heavy
artillery and tanks. "Our forces are continuing their advance until
they purge the last foothold" occupied by the Iranians, it said. (Iran
said its troops had killed or wounded more than 4,000 Iraqis and were
stabilising their new positions.) The Baghdad communique said Iraqi
planes also destroyed oil installations at Iran's southwestern Ahvaz
field during a raid today. It denied an Iranian report that an Iraqi
jet was shot down. Iraq also reported a naval battle at the northern
tip of the Gulf. Iraqi naval units and forces defending an offshore
terminal sank six Iranian out of 28 Iranian boats attempting to attack
an offshore terminal, the communique said. Reuter 

CRUDE OIL NETBACKS UP SHARPLY IN EUROPE, U.S.
    NEW YORK, April 9 - 
Crude oil netback values in complex refineries rose sharply in Europe
and firmed in the U.S. last Friday from the previous week but fell
sharply in Singapore, according to calculations by Reuters Pipeline.
The firmer tone to refining margins in Europe and the U.S. relected
higher prices for petroleum products, particularly gasoline, and
support from crude oil prices. Netback values for crude oil refined in
Northern Europe rose substantially following strong gains in gasoline
prices there. Brent is valued at 19.45 dlrs, up 56 cts a barrel or
three pct from the previous week. In the U.S. Gulf, sweet crudes rose
in value by 14 cts to 19.33 dlrs for West Texas Intermediate, up about
0.7 pct. Sour grades in the U.S. Gulf showed an increase of 33 cts a
barrel for Alaska North Slope, up 1.7 pct. But netbacks for crude oil
refined in Singapore fell sharply, down 15 cts to as much as 68 cts a
barrel as ample distillate supplies weighed on petroleum product
prices. Attaka in Singapore is valued at 18.55 dlrs, a decline of 68
cts a barrel or 3.5 pct from the previous week. For refineries in the
Mediterranean, netback values were mostly lower, with declines of
seven to 14 cts. The value of Kuwait crude fell 14 cts to 18.37 dlrs,
while Iranian Light fell 11 cts to 19.14 dlrs. On the U.S. West Coast,
netback values for ANS CIF L.A. also jumped sharply, up 40 cts a
barrel or 2.2 pct to 18.82 dlrs on higher gasoline prices. Reuter 

KUWAIT SEES OPEC OUTPUT OVER CEILING TO END-YEAR
    VIENNA, June 29 - 
OPEC output for the second half of 1987, including that of Iraq, will
be above the official 16.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) output ceiling
agreed by OPEC Saturday, Kuwait oil minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-
Sabah, said. Iraq refused to sign the pact, by which OPEC maintained
its ceiling at 16.6 mln bpd for both the third and fourth quarters of
1987. In December, OPEC set a provisional fourth quarter level of 18.3
mln bpd, now cut back to the third quarter target. Ali told a news
conference that including Iraq, "OPEC third quarter output will be
between 17.5 and 17.7 mln bpd while fourth quarter output will be
nearly 18 mln bpd" Ali did not detail what effect he thought these
production levels would have on prices. Iraq has an official first
half quota of 1.466 mln bpd, rising to 1.54 mln in the second half,
but has refused to adhere to it and has recently been producing around
two mln barrels per day, exporting it through pipelines to Saudi
Arabia and Turkey. Iraq's export capacity will be further boosted when
a 500,000 bpd oil pipeline via Turkey comes on stream in about
September. Iraq has been insisting on a quota equal to its Gulf War
enemy Iran, which has a quota of 2.255 mln bpd, rising to 2.369 mln in
the second half. Ali said the position of the 400,000 bpd production
from the Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, which has been
supplied to Iraq as war relief crude, was fixed. "We will not discuss
it. There will not be any change," he said. Ali said the conference,
which began Thursday and ended Saturday evening, had been too short
for all necessary problems to be adressed. "We are overdoing it in
holding too short a meeting. We sweep a lot under the carpet," he
said. Ali said the problem of price differentials between the prices
of various OPEC crudes had not been dealt with properly at the
meeting. Ali said "The problem of differentials is a real one. I would
hate to be producing today a light crude and that problem has not been
dealt with properly. Light crudes are overpriced relative to heavy
crudes." Asked if the issue of differentials would be raised at the
next OPEC meeting to be held in Vienna on December 9, Ali said "If my
crudes are affected I will raise the issue, I will not do the work of
another minister." Kuwait's own crudes range from medium to heavy
grades. OPEC reintroduced fixed prices on February 1, with a spread of
2.65 dlrs a barrel between its lightest and heaviest crudes. Reuter 

DIAMOND SHAMROCK <DRM> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Diamond Shamrock R and M said it raised its crude oil contract prices
by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. The company said its new
posting for West Texas Intermediate crude is 19 dlrs a barrel. The
price increase follows similar moves by several other companies.
Reuter 

DOE REACHES PROPOSED OIL SETTLEMENTS
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
The Energy Department said it reached proposed oil pricing settlements
totaling 680,150 dlrs with the operator and four working interest
owners of A.D. LeBlanc No. 1 well, Vermillion Parish, La. Trigon
Exploration Co., Inc operated the well from June 1979 to January 1981
for D. Bryan Ferguson, C. William Rogers, Omni Drilling Partnership No
1978-2 and Entex Inc. DOE alleged Trigon caused overcharges of 624,208
dlrs by improperly classifying its oil as "newly discovered crude," a
classification that allowed charging higher prices during a period of
price controls. It said the proposed settlements would resolve
disputes over possible violations by the five parties. DOE added that
in agreeing to the settlements, the five did not admit any violations
or non-compliance with its regulations. It said it would receive
written comments on the settlements before making it final. reuter 

U.S. OIL DEPENDENCY SEEN RISING TO RECORD LEVEL
    SAN FRANCISCO, April 9 - 
The United States' dependency on foreign oil sources may reach record
levels by the mid-1990s, according to John H. Lichtblau, president of
Petroleum Industry Research Associates. Lichtblau, speaking at an
alternative energy conference here, said the U.S. may depend on
foreign suppliers for as much as 52 pct of its oil by 1995,
surpasssing the previous high level of 47 pct in 1977. "The long term
growth in dependency on foreign oil is inevitable," Lichtblau said. As
much as 30 pct of U.S. oil imports in 1995 could come from OPEC
nations, he said. Lichtblau said the U.S. depended on foreign
suppliers for 33 pct of its oil in 1986 and predicted that would
increase to 40 pct by 1990. "However, the rate of this growth can be
affected positively or negatively through government action or
inaction," Lichtblau said. He said that one of the government's
negative actions is the maintenance of the windfall profits tax which
acts as a disincentive to developing existing fields and reduces cash
flow for oil exploration. Lichtblau called for the adoption of an
international floor price for crude oil to help stabilize world oil
prices. "An international floor price adopted by all or most
industrial countries would clearly be a much more effective measure
and would be much less distortive for the U.S. than if we imposed it
alone," Lichtblau said. Development of alternate energy sources such
as synthetic fuels as well as increased development in Alaska could
lessen U.S. dependency on foreign oil, Lichtblau said. A potential for
alternative supplies could limit the willingness of OPEC nations to
raise oil prices, he said. Lichtblau also called for the federal
government to offer tax abatements for oil drilling, to fill the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve at a faster rate and to develop pilot
plans for alternative energy. Reuter 

ECUADOR SAYS WILL RESUME LIMITED OIL PRODUCTION
    QUITO, April 13 - 
Ecuador will resume limited crude output next week to fill up storage
tanks as a first step to pump oil to a Colombian pipeline on May one,
the state Ecuadorean Petroleum Corp (CEPE) said. CEPE manager Carlos
Romoleroux told reporters that Ecuador would begin pumping an
unspecified amount of crude in northeastern jungle oilfields at the
end of next week in preparation to send the oil through a new pipeline
link-up to neighbouring Colombia. Oil production in Ecuador was halted
on March five when an earthquake damaged the country's main pipeline
from Lago Agrio, at the heart of the Ecuadorean jungle oilfields, to
the pacific port of Balao. It will take at least until the end of July
to repair the pipeline and return output to normal levels. The country
was pumping between 245,000 bpd and 250,000 bpd before the tremor. To
resume limited output in the meantime, Ecuador is constructing a 26
mile pipeline linkup, capable of carrying 55,000 bpd, from Lago Agrio
to Puerto Colon, the starting point of Colombia's pipeline to the
Pacific port of Tumaco. The original target date to resume limited
crude output was May eight, the scheduled date for the inauguration of
the Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon pipeline, an energy ministry spokesman
said. Reuter 

U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY SEES HIGHER OIL PRICES
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
Energy Secretary Donald Hodel said he expects oil prices to rise
significantly by the year 2000, probably to around 33 dlrs a barrel in
current dollars. "I do anticipate a significant increase (by 2000).
Thirty-three dlrs a barrel is not unreasonable," Hodel told the Senate
Energy Committee. Hodel said the loss of some domestic oil production
through the shutdown of stripper (10 barrels a day or less) wells
because of low prices was probably permanent. He said he was also
concerned by the decline in domestic oil exploration. Hodel urged
Congress to approve oil exploration in section 1002 of the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. He said geologic condtions in the
area were favorable for the discovery of oil fields equal to those in
nearby Prudhoe Bay. Reuter 

DIAMOND SHAMROCK RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES 50 CTS
A BBL, EFFECTIVE YESTERDAY, WTI TO 19 DLRS.




COASTAL SAID RAISED OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS A BARREL OCTOBER 16. WTI NOW 19.00 DLRS.




SAUDI RENEGOTIATION OF ARAMCO DEAL MOVING ALONG
    NEW YORK, JUNE 1 - 
Saudi Arabia's renegotiation of its collective agreement with Aramco
to purchase oil for the latter's ex-partners is moving along and
should lead to a fundamental structural change in the contract, oil
industry sources said. Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, in this Monday's
edition, said negotiations are moving along for adjustment of the 1.34
mln bpd joint long term agreement at official prices and volumes and
other terms may be rearranged. The agreement signed in January for the
months from February to June is up for renegotiation. Under the
January contract Aramco was to purchase 1.34 mln bpd for the four
partners allocated among them as Exxon Corp <XON> 440,000 bpd, Texaco
Inc <TX> 350,000 bpd, Mobil Corp <MOB> and Chevron Corp <CHV> 550,000
bpd between them. But an overlifting by Texaco Inc in the first
quarter allowed other companies like Exxon Corp to underlift its
obligations under the contract PIW said that that one alternative
under consideration is to revert to four individual contracts rather
than a collective agrement. John Lichtblau, director of the Petroleum
Industry Research Foundation Inc said that renegotiation of the pact
was more of a formality as the Saudis have each company on a separate
schedule although separate agreements with the companies would favor
one on one negotiations and ensure that contracted liftings occur .
"The companies will probably follow the Saudi wants within limits as
they do not want to antagonize them for the long haul," he said.
Lichtblau said that the renegotiations would most likely concentrate
on volume rather than price. Saudi displeasure with the agreement has
long been noted and in April industry publications said that
renegotiation were being sought, a fact later confirmed by Reuters
with Aramco. Aramco Corp was formerly owned by Chevron Corp <CHV>,
Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp <MOB> and Texaco Inc <TX> but is now
owned by Saudi Arabia which bought its assets although the ex-partners
have various agreements with Saudi Arabia. Reuter 

EX-ARCO <ARC> CHIEF SEES ENERGY CRISIS BY 1990
    HOUSTON, Oct 19 - 
Dwindling global crude oil reserves and the lack of any major new
discoveries in recent years will send the world into an energy crisis
by 1990, the former Atlantic Richfield Co chairman Robert O. Anderson
said. "It's going to come sooner than anyone thinks," Anderson told
reporters after addressing a Houston business lunch. "I believe we're
going to see a change in the world oil markets in two to three years
because oil is becoming harder to find." Anderson, who retired from
Arco last year to form Hondo Oil and Gas Co, said world oil
consumption is approaching 60 mln barrels a day but a current excess
capacity cushion of about 4.5 mln barrels a day will rapidly
disappear. "If you looked around the world, you could not scrape up
one mln barrels a day in shut-in production outside the Middle East,"
he said. "We're soon going to be right back where we were in 1973 and
1979." Anderson predicted that world oil prices would end 1987 at
about 24 dlrs a barrel and continue a gradual climb. "There's no way
prices can stay flat because there isn't enough supply," he said.
"There have been no major oil discoveries for the past 15 to 20
years." Alaska's Prudhoe Bay oil reserves, the last major world
discovery, has already produced about five billion barrels of oil or
more than half of its estimated reserves, he said. Reuter 

IRAN SAYS U.S. RAID CAUSED 500 MLN DLRS DAMAGE
    NICOSIA, Oct 20 - 
U.S. Attacks on two Iranian oil platforms in the Gulf -- both of which
were still blazing -- caused damage estimated at 500 mln dlrs, Tehran
Radio quoted Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh as saying. The
rigs, one of which was heavily shelled by four American destroyers on
Monday, were still burning almost 24 hours after the attack and could
cause widespread pollution in the Gulf, the minister told a news
conference in Tehran. He said the Reshadat rigs, 120 miles (200 km)
east of Bahrain in international waters, were in the final stages of
reconstruction after an attack by Iraqi jets last year. REUTER 

DUPONT UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Conoco Inc, a subsidiary of duPont deNemours <DD>, said it raised the
contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil 50 cts a
barrel, effective yesterday. The increase brings Conoco's posted price
for West Texas Intermediate to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The West Texas
Sour grade, at 34 API, now stands at 18.10 dlrs a barrel. Light
Louisiana was also raised 50 cts to 19.35 dlrs barrel. Conoco last
changed its crude postings on May 21. Reuter 

COASTAL RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS/BBL YESTERDAY,
WTI TO 19 DLRS




MAJOR U.S. PIPELINE MAY BE CLOSED SEVERAL DAYS
    NEW YORK, June 2 - 
The operator of a major U.S. crude oil pipeline, shutdown because of
flood damage, said it may be several days before repairs are made and
the system is functioning again. Dan Stevens, manager of public and
government affairs at Texaco Inc <TX>, operator of the pipeline
through its subsidiary Texaco Pipeline Co, said the company hopes
repairs will begin in about five days and expects it to take several
more days to complete. "At this point we are lining up what we know we
need, to get the job done," Stevens said, adding that the timing for
repairs will depend on the damage to the pipeline which is difficult
to assess because of flooding on the Red River. The pipeline was
shipping roughly 225,000 barrels of crude oil per day, or about 55 pct
of its capacity during the 30 days preceding its shutdown on Saturday,
Stevens said. The pipeline was shut down from Cushing, Okla, to
Witchita Falls, Kan, on Saturday due to an undetermined leak at the
Red River crossing, near the Oklahoma/Texas border, because of severe
rains, a spokesman for Texaco said. Stevens said it was reasonable to
suggest the pipeline could operate at full capacity when it reopens in
order to make up for the shortfull but cautioned they will talk with
customers to determine their requirements. Oil analysts and traders
said they were not sure if the shutdown will continue to raise U.S.
oil prices. Monday, after Texaco confirmed that the pipeline had been
closed, West Texas Intermediate crude in the spot market and on New
York Mercantile Exchange's energy futures complex rose 20 cts a
barrel. Stevens said it was reasonable to suggest the pipeline could
operate at full capacity when it reopens in order to make up for the
shortfull but cautioned they will talk with customers to determine
their requirements. Oil analysts and traders said they were not sure
if the shutdown will continue to raise U.S. oil prices. Monday, after
Texaco confirmed that the pipeline had been closed, West Texas
Intermediate crude in the spot market and on New York Mercantile
Exchange's energy futures complex rose 20 cts a barrel. Reuter 

SANTOS SAYS IT HAS SIGNIFICANT OIL FIND
    ADELAIDE, June 29 - 
Santos Ltd <STOS.S> said it had made a significant oil discovery at
its Mawson One well in the Moomba block of the Cooper Basin, South
Australia. It said the well flowed oil from sands at an average rate
of 1,440 barrels per day from 2,131 to 2,135 metres through a 6mm
choke. Santos said the well was cased and suspended pending further
evaluation. But it said the proximity of the discovery to existing
production facilities at the Gidgealpa South field would allow Mawson
One to be brought into production rapidly. Santos has a 60 pct stake
in the block, <Delhi Petroleum Pty Ltd> has 30 pct and <South
Australian Oil and Gas Corp Pty Ltd> has 10 pct. REUTER 

INDONESIA SAYS IT WILL EXTEND OIL CONTRACTS
    JAKARTA, Oct 20 - 
Indonesia told the oil industry on Tuesday it will extend contracts on
producing blocks and improve the investment climate, but wants to see
increased expenditure on exploration in return. President Suharto, in
an opening speech to the Indonesian Petroleum Association, said
Indonesia was ready to extend contracts held by foreign oil companies
on producing areas. "In order to boost investment in the petroleum
industry, the government of Indonesia has basically approved of
extending production sharing contracts under the present laws,"
Suharto said. "Apart from that, the government will keep improving the
investment climate in order to accelerate the development of the
petroleum industry," he said. Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto told
the Association he was aware that the oil industry needed to be
assured that contracts on blocks expiring within the next 10 years
would be renewed before they would invest in further exploration. "As
we all have heard this morning, the President is fully aware of this
situation," Subroto said. "The government has already made the
political decision to entertain this time problem by inviting the
existing producers to continue their activities in Indonesia, albeit
on a selective basis." Indonesia, one of the 13 members of OPEC, must
find new oil reserves if it is to remain an exporter in the next
decade, oil industry sources say. Subroto said the government was also
working to ease other problems, including granting easier terms for
remote areas or deep water conditions. But Subroto said relations with
oil companies were two-way and that they should step up expenditure on
oil exploration now that the oil price had recovered. President
Suharto said he wanted to see greater transfer of technology to
Indonesian companies, and more help from the oil industry for the
regions in which companies operated. Abdul Rachman Ramly, the
President of state oil company Pertamina, has said that budgeted
exploration and production expenditure for all oil companies in
Indonesia was forecast to fall to 3.1 billion dlrs in calendar 1987
from 3.4 billion in 1986. Pertamina has 69 production-sharing or joint
operation contracts with foreign oil companies. Subroto said speeding
up necessary approvals for field operations was a government priority.
There had been misunderstandings between the government and the oil
industry in certain areas, such as when a field is designated
commercial, and a thorough evaluation was being made. He said the
government wanted to finalise contract extensions as soon as
practical, and urged the industry in the meantime to maintain its
exploration drive. Subroto said Indonesia needed the companies to
maintain exploration efforts, even if their contract was due to expire
within 10 years. "This need in itself is some sort of guarantee that
we will soon have to come up with an extension agreement." Eleven
major contract areas are due to come up for renewal between 1991 and
2001, industry sources said. Extension of the contracts on the blocks
has involved detailed negotiations but so far no extension has been
granted. Subroto told reporters afterwards that contract extensions
would be selective, based on how much capital would be invested.
REUTER 

MALAYSIA ADVISED TO RAISE CRUDE OIL OUTPUT IN 1988
    KUALA LUMPUR, Oct 20 - 
Malaysia's national oil company, Petronas, has advised the government
to raise crude oil output to 540,000 barrels a day (bpd) in 1988 from
a current 500,000 bpd, a senior company official said. "We have the
capacity to produce the amount," Rastam Hadi, Petronas's Vice-
President for Upstream Sector said. The government will announce its
decision on Friday when it unveils the country's budget. Malaysia
raised output this month to current levels from 420,000 bpd after
reviewing the world oil market. In May, Malaysia cut output to 420,000
bpd from 459,000 in response to a call by OPEC to boost prices. REUTER


NORWAY EXTENDS 7.5 PCT OIL OUTPUT CUT - MINISTRY
    OSLO, June 29 - 
Norway will extend its 7.5 pct cutback in planned North Sea oil output
in support of OPEC from July 15 until the end of this year, Oil
Ministry spokesman Egil Helle told Reuters. "We took a very positive
view of the OPEC meeting in Vienna," he said. "The accord reached
there means stability in the oil market and we shall continue making
our contribution." The cuts, originally brought in from February 1,
would probably be officially approved on July 10 by parliament, Helle
said. The ministry had written to Norway's oil companies and would now
discuss with them how best to implement the cuts. OPEC agreed this
weekend in Vienna on an output ceiling of 16.6 mln barrels per day
(bpd) for the rest of 1987 and retained the fixed prices that were set
in its December accord based on an 18 dlr per barrel reference point.
OPEC's first half 1987 output ceiling was 15.8 mln bpd, and it's
December pact had provisionally set a third quarter ceiling of 16.6
mln bpd, rising to 18.3 mln in the fourth quarter. Norway, which pumps
around one mln bpd from its offshore fields, previously said it would
continue its output curbs from planned production for the rest of the
year if OPEC remained within its December accord on output and prices.
Norway's oil production rose 10 pct to an average of around 840,000
bpd in 1986. Since then it has risen to around one mln bpd, and is
expected to reach about 1.5 mln bpd by 1995. The 7.5 pct cut from
planned production implemented since February reduced Norway's oil
output by about 80,000 bpd. Norway's Oil Minister Arne Oeien,
currently in Iceland for a meeting of Nordic ministers, has made no
official statement on the latest oil production cutbacks. Over the
past year several other leading non-OPEC producers, including the
Soviet Union, Mexico, China, Malaysia and Egypt have also pledged
support for OPEC's bid to keep prices stable. Norway decided on the
initial round of cuts following an OPEC agreement last December which
boosted oil prices to around 18 dlrs per barrel from around 14 to 15
dlrs last December. Norway relies on oil for about 40 pct of its total
export earnings and was hit hard by the collapse in the oil price
during the first half of 1986. But firmer oil prices since then have
brought some stability to the economy and helped narrow the foreign
trade deficit. Norway's North Sea neighbour Britain has consistently
refused to cooperate with OPEC output cuts saying it is up to the
producing oil companies to set the levels of production. REUTER 

PERMIAN RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS
 A BBL, WTI TO 19 DLRS




TEXACO <TX> UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES
    New York, Oct 20 - 
Texaco Inc said it raised the contract price it will pay for most
grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective October 16. The
company said the increase brings its posting for the U.S. benchmark
grade, West Texas Intermediate, to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The West Texas
Sour and Light Louisiana Sweet grades were also raised 50 cts to 18.10
and 19.35 dlrs a barrel, respectively. Texaco last changed its crude
oil postings on September 15. Reuter 

ARTILLERY SHELLS SAID TO FALL ON KUWAIT BORDER
    KUWAIT, Oct 20 - 
Artillery shells from an exchange of fire between Iran and Iraq fell
on Kuwait's northern border on Tuesday but caused no casualties, the
Kuwait News Agency KUNA said, quoting a Defense Ministry official.
There were rumors in world oil markets on Tuesday that Iran had fired
shells at an oil camp in northern Kuwait in retaliation for U.S.
Attacks on Iranian oil platforms in the Gulf on Monday. "Several
shells fell in a random manner on the northern border of the country,"
the official told KUNA. "It seems these shells arose from an exchange
of fire between Iran and Iraq... No one was wounded and there were no
losses." Diplomats said shells from the nearby Iran-Iraq warfront had
in the past fallen in the northern Kuwaiti desert. A senior Kuwait
Petroleum Corporation official had earlier told Reuters he was unaware
of any attack against Kuwaiti oil installations. Reuter 

MURPHY RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS A BBL YESTERDAY,
WTI TO 19 DLRS




USX <X> UNIT HIKES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
Marathon Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of USX Corp, said it lowered
posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts with an effective date of
October 16. The increase brings posted prices for West Texas
Intermediate and West Texas Sour to 19.00 dlrs a barrel each. South
Louisiana Sweet was increased to 19.35 dlrs a barrel. Several
indepndent oil companies such as Permian Corp and Coastal Corp <CGP>
said they had moved prices up effective last Friday the day Sun Co
<SUN> announced a 50 cts a barrel increase to 19.00 dlrs a barrel.
Reuter 

TASS DENOUNCES U.S. ATTACK ON IRAN AS ADVENTURISM
    MOSCOW, Oct 19 - 
The official Soviet news agency Tass denounced a U.S. Attack on an
Iranian oil-drilling platform in the Gulf on Monday as military
adventurism and said it would bring no dividends to the Reagan
administration. Tass commentator Mikhail Krutikhin said the
administration had embarked on an adventurist path in order to deflect
attention from the scandal in which the United States sold arms to
Iran and the profits were diverted to Nicaraguan rebels. "The
confrontation is a fact now. What is obvious is that the latest
military adventure will not bring political dividends to the American
administration," Krutikhin said. Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and
Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze abruptly left a parliamentary
session earlier on Monday, sparking diplomatic speculation that they
were concerned with an urgent matter of foreign affairs. Soviet
officials have previously criticized the United States for sending
naval forces into the Gulf, saying their presence serves to increase
tension. Moscow is officially neutral in the war between Iran and
Iraq. It is a major arms supplier to Iraq but has also sought broader
contacts with Iran in the last year. Krutikhin said: "The United
States has undertaken an act of armed aggression against Iran, the
probability of which has long been spoken of by Washington officials."
Reuter 

AMOCO <AN> RAISES CRUDE PRICES
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
Amoco Corp said it raised the contract price it will pay for most
grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The company
said the increase brings its posting for West Texas Intermediate to
19.00 dlrs a barrel. West Texas Sour, at 34 degrees API, was raised to
18.10 dlrs. The Light Louisiana Sweet grade was also increased 50 cts
to 19.35 dlrs a barrel. Amoco said Wyoming Southwest Sweet, Colorado
Western, and two Utah grades of oil, Black wax and yellow wax, were
unchanged. The company last changed its crude oil postings on
September 28. Reuter 

VENEZUELA BACKS INCREASE IN ECUADOR OPEC QUOTA
    CARACAS, Oct 19 - 
Venezuela will back Ecuador's bid to raise its OPEC quota above
221,000 barrels per day (bpd) because it is a justifiable demand,
Venezuelan Energy Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said on Monday.
He told reporters the country deserved a higher quota in compensation
for the five months it was forced to suspend oil production when its
main pipeline was destroyed by an earthquake last March. "For this
five-month period, Ecuador did not exercise its right to produce
221,000 bpd," he said. "We should recognize Ecuador's right to
increase its quota ... There is a basis of justice in that country's
petition." He added however, the quota increase should be gradual to
avoid harming the market, he added. Hernandez Grisanti said he
understood Ecuador would formally submit the request for a higher
quota at the next ministerial conference of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) opening December 9 in Vienna.
Reuter 

VENEZUELA SEES OIL STABILITY DESPITE GULF ATTACK
     CARACAS, Oct 19 - 
Venezuelan Energy Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said he foresaw
market stability in the price of crude, despite growing tension in the
Gulf augmented by the U.S. military attack on an Iranian oil platform.
He told a news conference the market continues to be stable despite
all the military action in the Gulf. Reuter 

TEXACO CANADA RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 24 CANADIAN
CTS/BBL, LIGHT SWEET NOW 25.60 DLRS/BBL




UNION PACIFIC RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS
A BBL, EFFECTIVE YESTERDAY, WTI TO 19 DLRS.




UNOCAL RAISED CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS/BBL, WTI NOW 19
DLRS/BBL




COASTAL <CGP> CRUDE POSTING UP 50 CTS/BBL
    NEW YORK, June 18 - 
Coastal Corp <CGP> said it raised the postings of crude oil 50 cts a
barrel across the board, effective yesterday, June 17. The new price
for West Texas Intermediate is 19.00 dlrs a barrel. For West Texas
Sour the new price is 18.10 dlrs a barrel. Reuter 

UNOCAL <UCL> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES
    LOS ANGELES, Oct 19 - 
Unocal Corp said it raised its posted prices for most U.S. grades of
crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective October 16. The move brings
the price the company will pay for the U.S. benchmark grade, West
Texas Intermediate, and West Texas Sour to 19 dlrs a barrel. The price
was last changed September 9, Unocal said. Reuter 

SAUDI OIL COMPANY GETS NEW ACTING GOVERNOR
    RIYADH, June 29 - 
The acting governor of Saudi Arabia's state-owned oil company,
Petromin, Jamal Hassan Jawa, has retired at his own request, oil
industry sources said. They said Ali Ibrahim Rubaishi, head of
organisation planning in Petromin, would take over as acting governor.
Jawa held the post since his predecessor, Abdul-Hadi Taher, left in a
major oil industry shake up last December. The sources said Rubaishi
had not been expected to hold the post permanently. The government
removed Taher and Oil Minister Ahmed Zaki Yamani from their posts late
last year in a move which industry sources said was aimed at coming to
grips with a buyers' oil market. The two men had run the Saudi oil
industry for more than 20 years. Industry sources said that despite
huge resources, Saudi Arabia had been unable to mould an oil marketing
strategy tuned to the competitive realities of the 1980s glut. Hisham
Nazer, who replaced Yamani, successfully led an OPEC-engineered return
to fixed oil prices of 18 dlrs a barrel last December. Nazer is
believed to be reviewing Saudi oil operations which could lead to a
thorough overhaul in the way Saudi Arabia does business, the sources
said. The sources had said possible candidates for the governor's job
include Prince Abdul Aziz Ibn Salman Ibn Abdul Aziz, who earlier ran a
research center at Saudi Arabia's University of Petroleum and
Minerals, and former Deputy Planning Minister Faisal Beshir. They also
list Abdulla Bakr, President of the University of Petroleum and
Minerals, economist Ali Jonahi, Ahmed Shinawi, and Zuheir Masoud,
director of Jeddah Islamic Port. REUTER 

ENERGY SECRETARY SEES HIGHER OIL PRICES
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
Energy Secretary Donald Hodel said he expects oil prices to rise
significantly by the year 2000, probably to around 33 dlrs a barrel in
current dollars. "I do anticipate a significant increase (by 2000).
Thirty-three dlrs a barrel is not unreasonable," Hodel told the Senate
Energy Committee. Hodel said the loss of some domestic oil production
through the shutdown of stripper (10 barrels a day or less) wells
because of low prices was probably permanent. He said he was also
concerned by the decline in domestic oil exploration. Hodel urged
Congress to approve oil exploration in section 1002 of the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. He said geologic condtions in the
area were favorable for the discovery of oil fields equal to those in
nearby Prudhoe Bay. "The area could contain potentially recoverable
oil resources of more than 9.2 billion barrels, an amount nearly equal
to the Prudhoe Bay oil field, which currently provides almost one-
fifth of U.S. domestic production," Hodel said. He said production
from the new section could begin about the time Prudhoe Bay production
begins to decline in 2000 without endangering caribou or other
wildlife in the area. Reuter 

PHILLIPS RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES 50 CTS/BBL
EFFECTIVE YESTERDAY, WTI NOW 19 DLRS.




DUPONT UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS/BBL,
EFFECTIVE YESTERDAY




SOUTHLAND CORP RAISED CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS/BBL, WTI
NOW 19 DLRS/BBL




