YIELD RISES ON 30-DAY SAMA DEPOSITS
    BAHRAIN, April 11 - 
The yield on 30-day Bankers Security Deposit Accounts issued this week
by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA) rose by more than 1/8
point to 5.95913 pct from 5.79348 a week ago, bankers said. SAMA
decreased the offer price on the 900 mln riyal issue to 99.50586 from
99.51953 last Saturday. Like-dated interbank deposits were quoted
today at 6-3/8, 1/8 pct -- 1/8 point higher than last Saturday. SAMA
offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals in 30, 91 and 180-day paper to
banks in the kingdom each week.

FED ARRANGES THREE-DAY SYSTEM REPOS
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to
arrange three-day system repurchase agreements, a spokesman for the
New York Fed said. Federal funds were trading at 7-5/8 pct at the time
of the direct injection of temporary reserves, dealers said.

AQUINO SAYS MANILA WATCHING INTEREST RATES CLOSELY
    MANILA, Oct 20 - 
President Corazon Aquino said the Philippines was closely monitoring
interest rates in the wake of Monday's record drop on Wall Street and
steep declines in Manila and other Asian stock markets. "We will
monitor these developments closely and will continue to hope that they
do not precipitate large declines in economic activity around the
world," Aquino told a meeting of 13 major Philippine business groups.
"The Philippines, as a trading country in the world economy, depends
on the continued health and growth of both the world economy and the
world trading system," she said. The Manila Stock Exchange composite
index plunged 105.49 points or 11.79 pct by the midday close to
789.54, depressed by the record 508 point fall of the Dow Jones
industrial average on Monday. "The Philippines, in addition, as a
large borrower nation, is affected by developments in interest rate
levels around the world and will carefully monitor the impact of these
developments on interest rates, on gold and on commodity prices,"
Aquino said. "We welcome the statements from world leaders that urge
calm in the present difficult situation," she added.

UAE CENTRAL BANK CD YIELDS UNCHANGED
    BAHRAIN, June 29 - 
Yields on certificates of deposit (CDs) issued today by the United
Arab Emirates central bank were unchanged from those on last Monday's
offer, the bank said. The one month yield was set at last week's 6-3/4
pct, while two and three month CDs also remained unchanged at 6-13/16
pct. The six month yield was set at seven pct.

CITIBANK LOWERS AUSTRALIAN PRIME RATE TO 16 PCT
    SYDNEY, June 18 - 
Citibank Ltd said it would lower its Australian prime rate to 16 pct
from 16.5, effective tomorrow. The new rate, if unmatched by other
banks, will be the lowest among Australian trading banks. Other primes
range from 16.25 to 17.5 pct. Australian prime rates have now
retreated from a recent peak of 19 pct in October in line with
declining money market levels. Citibank said its reduction reflected
the decline.

TOKYO STOCK PLUNGE COULD FORCE EASIER MONEY POLICY
    TOKYO, Oct 20 - 
Plunging Tokyo stock prices will prevent the Bank of Japan from
raising its discount rate and could even force it to ease monetary
policy if the collapse continues, government and private economists
said. A rise in interest rates now would only serve to spark further
selling of shares that could ultimately have a major deflationary
impact on the real economy, they said. Although Bank of Japan
officials have consistently maintained that they had no plans to raise
the 2.5 pct discount rate, many in the markets have thought otherwise.
Fears of a rise in the discount rate were fanned by the central bank's
apparent decision last week to countenance higher rates on commercial
bills, dealers said. But today's stock market collapse -- prices fell
nearly 15 pct -- means that the Bank of Japan would be hard pressed to
raise the discount rate now, despite its concerns about a renewed
outbreak of inflation, dealers and economists said. Japanese
government bond prices rose sharply today as the markets concluded
that the stock market's collapse precluded the central bank from
carrying out the widely-rumoured discount rate increase. A senior
government economist suggested that both the U.S. And Japan needed to
ease monetary policy now to prevent a further drop in New York and
Tokyo stock prices. "They need to support the stock and security
markets," he said. But Bank of Japan officials said they saw no need
to change policy for the moment, although one admitted that the
central bank may have to rethink its strategy if Tokyo stock prices
continue to plunge during the rest of the week. Both government and
Bank of Japan economists agreed the economy is better placed now to
cope with the deflationary impact of plunging stock prices than it was
a few months ago. With the economy recovering strongly, the steep drop
in stock prices is not likely to put a major dent in consumer and
business confidence, one government economist said. "There will be
some impact on the real economy, but it won't be that big," said
another. Individuals are not heavily invested in stocks on their own,
although they do participate through trust funds and other investment
vehicles. And while many manufacturing firms turned to financial
market investments for profits during last year's economic downturn,
the recent rebound has allowed them to refocus their attention on
their core businesses, he said. Paradoxically, it is the pick-up in
the economy that is partly to blame for the stock market collapse as
companies have shifted funds away from financial investments to
increase inventories and step up capital spending, one government
economist said. In deciding what response to make to the steep stock
price drop, the Bank of Japan must first determine whether prices will
continue to fall further and then decide if they pose a greater
economic danger than the threat of higher inflation, one central bank
official said. "That will at least take a couple of days, if not
weeks," he said.

FED ADDS RESERVES VIA OVERNIGHT REPURCHASES
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to
arrange overnight System repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.
Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed
began its temporary and direct supply of reserves to the banking
system.

COMMONWEALTH BANK CUTS AUSTRALIAN SPLIT PRIME
    SYDNEY, June 18 - 
The Commonwealth Bank of Australia said it will lower its reference
rate for loans to 15.75 pct from 16.25 pct and its overdraft reference
rate to 16.25 pct from 16.75, effective June 24. Bank officials have
said the bank regards the overdraft reference rate, based on short-
term rate trends, as its key prime lending rate to corporate
customers. The loan reference rate is based on longer term trends. The
bank is the latest to cut prime rates in recent days following a
continuing decline in market rates. Other prime rates now range from
16 pct to 17.5 pct.

 HK SHANGHAI BANK, STANDARD CHARTERED BANK RAISE PRIME
1/2 POINT TO 7.5 PCT.




REAGAN SAYS THERE IS ROOM FOR FURTHER DECLINES IN INTEREST RATES




SAUDI RATES RISE AS BAHRAIN BANKS CAUGHT SHORT
    BAHRAIN, April 9 - 
Saudi riyal interest rates rose as Bahrain-based banks scrambled to
cover short positions, dealers said. Several Bahrain banks had been
lending in the fixed periods and borrowing in the short dates, but
today they found the day-to-day money in short supply, dealers said.
"Everybody's stuck in the spot-next," one trader said. Spot-next rose
to as high as 6-1/4, six pct from 5-1/4, five pct yesterday, and the
borrowing interest spilled over into the periods, with one month
rising to around 6-3/16, 5-15/16 pct from 5-15/16, 7/8 pct yesterday.
Three months edged up to around 6-9/16, 5/16 pct from 6-7/16, 1/4 pct,
while six months was quoted a touch firmer by some banks at seven,
6-3/4 pct. Commercial banks quoted the spot riyal at 3.7500/04 to the
dollar after 3.7507/09 yesterday.

CHEMICAL BANK CUTS PRIME RATE TO 9.25 PCT FROM 9.75 PCT, EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY




JAPAN HAS NO PLANS TO CUT DISCOUNT RATE
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
Bank of Japan sources said the bank has no plans to cut its discount
rate. They told reporters that there was no pressure on Japan during
the Group of Seven (G-7) meeting here yesterday to lower its discount
rate. They added that they themselves do not feel any need for a cut
at all. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson told reporters
earlier today that some countries - those with strong currencies -
might have to cut interest rates. The Bank of Japan sources also said
that it was too soon to call the G-7 pact a failure. The central bank
sources were commenting on the dollar's renewed tumble in New York and
Tokyo, which was sparked by remarks by U.S. Treasury Secretary James
Baker that the dollar's fall had been orderly. They said the market
must have misinterpreted Baker's comments because he was referring to
the dollar's fall since the Plaza agreement in September 1985, over a
long-time span, not the currency's recent movements. They added that
the foreign exchange markest seem to seize on anything to use as an
excuse to drive the dollar one way or the other. The Bank of Japan
sources said the U.S. Is putting more weight on the dollar/yen rate in
terms of judging market stability than on other currencies. Throughout
the G-7 meeting, Japan pointed to the dangers that would arise from a
further dollar fall because it would reduce the flow of Japanese
capital to the U.S., Hurting the U.S. And world economies, they said.
In February and in March of this year, Japanese investors reduced
their purchases of U.S. Treasury bonds, the sources said. Each country
in the G-7 - Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the U.S. And West
Germany - has a different view about currency stability, the Bank of
Japan sources said. This is because the overall foreign exchange
market is a triangle of dollar/yen, European currencies/yen and
dollar/European currencies. At the time of the Louvre agreement,
European countries did not want the yen to weaken against their
currencies so they did not object to the yen strengthening, they said.

FED'S SEGER SAYS U.S. THRIFT INDUSTRY NEEDS STABLE
INTEREST RATES




COMMONWEALTH BANK CUTS AUSTRALIAN SPLIT PRIME
    SYDNEY, June 18 - 
The Commonwealth Bank of Australia said it will lower its reference
rate for loans to 15.75 pct from 16.25 pct and its overdraft reference
rate to 16.25 pct from 16.75, effective June 24. Bank officials have
said the bank regards the overdraft reference rate, based on short-
term rate trends, as its key prime lending rate to corporate
customers. The loan reference rate is based on longer term trends. The
bank is the latest to cut prime rates in recent days following a
continuing decline in market rates. Other prime rates now range from
16 pct to 17.5 pct.

YIELD RISES ON 30-DAY SAMA DEPOSITS
    BAHRAIN, April 11 - 
The yield on 30-day Bankers Security Deposit Accounts issued this week
by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA) rose by more than 1/8
point to 5.95913 pct from 5.79348 a week ago, bankers said. SAMA
decreased the offer price on the 900 mln riyal issue to 99.50586 from
99.51953 last Saturday. Like-dated interbank deposits were quoted
today at 6-3/8, 1/8 pct -- 1/8 point higher than last Saturday. SAMA
offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals in 30, 91 and 180-day paper to
banks in the kingdom each week.

FED ARRANGES THREE-DAY SYSTEM REPOS
    NEW YORK, Oct 19 - 
The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to
arrange three-day system repurchase agreements, a spokesman for the
New York Fed said. Federal funds were trading at 7-5/8 pct at the time
of the direct injection of temporary reserves, dealers said.

AQUINO SAYS MANILA WATCHING INTEREST RATES CLOSELY
    MANILA, Oct 20 - 
President Corazon Aquino said the Philippines was closely monitoring
interest rates in the wake of Monday's record drop on Wall Street and
steep declines in Manila and other Asian stock markets. "We will
monitor these developments closely and will continue to hope that they
do not precipitate large declines in economic activity around the
world," Aquino told a meeting of 13 major Philippine business groups.
"The Philippines, as a trading country in the world economy, depends
on the continued health and growth of both the world economy and the
world trading system," she said. The Manila Stock Exchange composite
index plunged 105.49 points or 11.79 pct by the midday close to
789.54, depressed by the record 508 point fall of the Dow Jones
industrial average on Monday. "The Philippines, in addition, as a
large borrower nation, is affected by developments in interest rate
levels around the world and will carefully monitor the impact of these
developments on interest rates, on gold and on commodity prices,"
Aquino said. "We welcome the statements from world leaders that urge
calm in the present difficult situation," she added.

UAE CENTRAL BANK CD YIELDS UNCHANGED
    BAHRAIN, June 29 - 
Yields on certificates of deposit (CDs) issued today by the United
Arab Emirates central bank were unchanged from those on last Monday's
offer, the bank said. The one month yield was set at last week's 6-3/4
pct, while two and three month CDs also remained unchanged at 6-13/16
pct. The six month yield was set at seven pct.

CITIBANK LOWERS AUSTRALIAN PRIME RATE TO 16 PCT
    SYDNEY, June 18 - 
Citibank Ltd said it would lower its Australian prime rate to 16 pct
from 16.5, effective tomorrow. The new rate, if unmatched by other
banks, will be the lowest among Australian trading banks. Other primes
range from 16.25 to 17.5 pct. Australian prime rates have now
retreated from a recent peak of 19 pct in October in line with
declining money market levels. Citibank said its reduction reflected
the decline.

TOKYO STOCK PLUNGE COULD FORCE EASIER MONEY POLICY
    TOKYO, Oct 20 - 
Plunging Tokyo stock prices will prevent the Bank of Japan from
raising its discount rate and could even force it to ease monetary
policy if the collapse continues, government and private economists
said. A rise in interest rates now would only serve to spark further
selling of shares that could ultimately have a major deflationary
impact on the real economy, they said. Although Bank of Japan
officials have consistently maintained that they had no plans to raise
the 2.5 pct discount rate, many in the markets have thought otherwise.
Fears of a rise in the discount rate were fanned by the central bank's
apparent decision last week to countenance higher rates on commercial
bills, dealers said. But today's stock market collapse -- prices fell
nearly 15 pct -- means that the Bank of Japan would be hard pressed to
raise the discount rate now, despite its concerns about a renewed
outbreak of inflation, dealers and economists said. Japanese
government bond prices rose sharply today as the markets concluded
that the stock market's collapse precluded the central bank from
carrying out the widely-rumoured discount rate increase. A senior
government economist suggested that both the U.S. And Japan needed to
ease monetary policy now to prevent a further drop in New York and
Tokyo stock prices. "They need to support the stock and security
markets," he said. But Bank of Japan officials said they saw no need
to change policy for the moment, although one admitted that the
central bank may have to rethink its strategy if Tokyo stock prices
continue to plunge during the rest of the week. Both government and
Bank of Japan economists agreed the economy is better placed now to
cope with the deflationary impact of plunging stock prices than it was
a few months ago. With the economy recovering strongly, the steep drop
in stock prices is not likely to put a major dent in consumer and
business confidence, one government economist said. "There will be
some impact on the real economy, but it won't be that big," said
another. Individuals are not heavily invested in stocks on their own,
although they do participate through trust funds and other investment
vehicles. And while many manufacturing firms turned to financial
market investments for profits during last year's economic downturn,
the recent rebound has allowed them to refocus their attention on
their core businesses, he said. Paradoxically, it is the pick-up in
the economy that is partly to blame for the stock market collapse as
companies have shifted funds away from financial investments to
increase inventories and step up capital spending, one government
economist said. In deciding what response to make to the steep stock
price drop, the Bank of Japan must first determine whether prices will
continue to fall further and then decide if they pose a greater
economic danger than the threat of higher inflation, one central bank
official said. "That will at least take a couple of days, if not
weeks," he said.

FED ADDS RESERVES VIA OVERNIGHT REPURCHASES
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to
arrange overnight System repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.
Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed
began its temporary and direct supply of reserves to the banking
system.

COMMONWEALTH BANK CUTS AUSTRALIAN SPLIT PRIME
    SYDNEY, June 18 - 
The Commonwealth Bank of Australia said it will lower its reference
rate for loans to 15.75 pct from 16.25 pct and its overdraft reference
rate to 16.25 pct from 16.75, effective June 24. Bank officials have
said the bank regards the overdraft reference rate, based on short-
term rate trends, as its key prime lending rate to corporate
customers. The loan reference rate is based on longer term trends. The
bank is the latest to cut prime rates in recent days following a
continuing decline in market rates. Other prime rates now range from
16 pct to 17.5 pct.

 HK SHANGHAI BANK, STANDARD CHARTERED BANK RAISE PRIME
1/2 POINT TO 7.5 PCT.




REAGAN SAYS THERE IS ROOM FOR FURTHER DECLINES IN INTEREST RATES




SAUDI RATES RISE AS BAHRAIN BANKS CAUGHT SHORT
    BAHRAIN, April 9 - 
Saudi riyal interest rates rose as Bahrain-based banks scrambled to
cover short positions, dealers said. Several Bahrain banks had been
lending in the fixed periods and borrowing in the short dates, but
today they found the day-to-day money in short supply, dealers said.
"Everybody's stuck in the spot-next," one trader said. Spot-next rose
to as high as 6-1/4, six pct from 5-1/4, five pct yesterday, and the
borrowing interest spilled over into the periods, with one month
rising to around 6-3/16, 5-15/16 pct from 5-15/16, 7/8 pct yesterday.
Three months edged up to around 6-9/16, 5/16 pct from 6-7/16, 1/4 pct,
while six months was quoted a touch firmer by some banks at seven,
6-3/4 pct. Commercial banks quoted the spot riyal at 3.7500/04 to the
dollar after 3.7507/09 yesterday.

CHEMICAL BANK CUTS PRIME RATE TO 9.25 PCT FROM 9.75 PCT, EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY




JAPAN HAS NO PLANS TO CUT DISCOUNT RATE
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
Bank of
U.S. SENATE LEADER CALLS FOR INTEREST RATE CUTS
    WASHINGTON, April 12 - 
Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.) called on
major industrial countries to make a pledge at the coming economic
summit in Venice to cut interest rates. "I think at the summit meeting
in Venice what we ought to be trying to do is to get the other major
industrial nations that are involved to bring interest rates down,
say, one pct," Bentsen told NBC Television's "Meet the Press." Bentsen
said coordinated rate cuts could take "billions off the debt service
of the Latin countries" and help ease protectionist pressures in the
industrial countries. Bentsen also South Korea and Taiwan should be
pressured to revalue their currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar.
"You take the Taiwanese, with an enormous capital surplus, enormous
trade surplus, and we've had very little cooperation there," he said.
Departing Deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman told the same
television network he agreed that the U.S. dollar had not fallen
enough against the currencies of some countries. "I think that more
does have to be done there in negotiations with the countries
involved, the so-called NICs (newly industrialized countries)," he
said. Darman said such negotiations with newly industrialized
countries were underway privately. Bentsen predicted Congress and the
White House would agree on a fiscal 1988 budget that would raise
between 18 and 22 billion dlrs in new revenues. The Texas senator said
a series of excise taxes would be considered by Congress, including an
extension of the telephone tax and new levies on liquor and
cigarettes. Bentsen said he supported an oil import fee, but that it
would not happen without President Reagan's support. Darman called for
a "top level negotiation" between the White House and Congress on a
budget compromise that would include asset sales, some excise taxes,
cuts in middle-class entitlement programs, "a reasonable, steady rate
of growth in defense" and reform of the budget process.

ANZ BANKING GROUP CUTS PRIME RATE TO 16.00 PCT
    MELBOURNE, June 19 - 
The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> said it will
cut its prime rate to 16.00 pct from 16.50, effective June 22. The cut
takes the ANZ's prime to the lower end of the range of prime rates
being offered by Australian trading banks. The highest rate is 17.50
pct. The cut follows announcements of cuts yesterday by <Citibank Ltd>
to 16.00 pct from 16.5, effective today, and <Commonwealth Bank of
Australia> to 15.75 pct from 16.25, effective June 24.

BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED
    PARIS, April 9 - 
The Bank of France said it left its intervention rate unchanged at
7-3/4 pct when it injected funds in the market against first category
paper in today's money market intervention tender. Money market
dealers had earlier expressed mixed views on the possibility of
quarter point cut. The rate was last adjusted on March 9, when it was
cut to 7-3/4 pct from the eight pct rate set in January.

FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term
discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-174
days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-174 days 175-190 days 5.88 pct 5.85 pct
175-190 days 191-270 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 191-270 days 271-288 days
5.92 pct 5.92 pct 271-288 days 289-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 289-360
days

 Bank of France says it leaves intervention rate unchanged at 7-1/2 pct




CANADIAN BANK RATE RISES IN WEEK
    OTTAWA, April 9 - 
Canada's key bank rate rose to 7.20 pct from 7.15 pct the week before,
Bank of Canada said. Bank rate is set 1/4 percentage point above the
average yield on the weekly issue of 91-day treasury bills. This
week's yield was 6.95 pct compared with the previous week's 6.90 pct.
Tenders were accepted for 2.55 billion dlrs of 91-day bills at an
average price of 98.296 dlrs against 98.310 dlrs last week. The 1.40
billion dlrs of 182-day bills were priced at an average 96.488 dlrs
against 96.549 dlrs last week, to yield an average 7.30 pct, versus
7.17 pct last week. The 500 mln dlrs of 364-day bills were priced at
an average 92.969 dlrs against 93.159 dlrs last week, to yield an
average 7.58 pct versus 7.38 pct last week. Tenders will be received
next week for 2.50 billion dlrs of 91-day bills, 1.40 billion dlrs of
182-day bills and 500 mln dlrs of 364-day bills.

COMMONWEALTH BANK CUTS AUSTRALIA PRIME TO 17.5 PCT
    SYDNEY, April 13 - 
The Commonwealth Bank of Australia said it will lower its prime
lending rate to 17.5 pct from 18.25, effective April 15. The bank's
new rate will be the lowest of Australia's current prime rates. They
now range from 17.75 pct to 18.5 after a recent series of reductions
since late March following an easier trend in short term money market
rates. Two of the three other major trading banks now have prime rates
of 18 pct and one of 18.25. The Commonwealth's move reverses an
increase from 17.5 pct in early February.

LAWSON SAYS SOME COUNTRIES COULD CUT RATES
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
Nigel Lawson, Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, said some
countries may need to cut interest rates with the aim of maintaining
exchange rate stability. Speaking to journalists one day after the
Group of Seven countries reaffirmed goals set in Paris six weeks ago,
he said central banks would continue to intervene "as and when
necessary." He said the G-7 countries were concerned that Japan do
more to stimulate domestic demand and welcomed measures outlined by
Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa yesterday. Lawson said he
was still worried about the risk of a simultaneous recession in the
United States, Japan and West Germany, though less so than when he
gave his March 17 budget speech to the British Parliament. "If
anything I'm a little bit less concerned, but there is still a risk,"
he said. Asked if the United States should consider increasing
interest rates to support the dollar, he said, "If there is a need for
changes in relative interest rates, it doesn't need to be a rise in
interest rates in the United States." Lawson said there was some
concern expressed in yesterday's meetings at the slow progress the
United States had made in reducing its budget deficit. "We believe
there will be some worthwhile progress in reducing the deficit this
year. The important thing is that it continue year after year," Lawson
said. The February 22 Louvre accord called for efforts to stabilize
currencies at then-current exchange rates. In the six weeks that
followed the Japanese yen continued to rise against the dollar despite
massive central bank intervention. Asked whether this intervention was
a sign of weakness in the Louvre accord, he said, "I don't think so.
If there had been no intervention you would have called that a sign of
weakness." Although intervention could be a cause of inflation, Lawson
said, "the world does not appear to be in an inflationary mode ... but
one has to be vigilant." He said yesterday's G-7 statement, which
affirmed that "current levels" of exchange rates were appropriate, had
been "carefully worded." "We know what we mean, and we all mean the
same thing," he said. Lawson said financial markets seem to believe
that Japanese measures outlined in the Louvre accord were the source
of weakness for that agreement. Therefore, the G-7 countries welcomed
Miyazawa's presentation of plans for a supplemental budget to
stimulate domestic demand. They particularly welcomed the goal of an
immediate increase in public works spending, but Lawson said the
package also involved a second stage to increase expenditures during
the second half of this year.

ANZ BANKING GROUP SAYS IT WILL CUT PRIME RATE TO 16.00
PCT FROM 16.50 ON JUNE 22




MARINE MIDLAND BANK CUTS PRIME RATE TO 9.25 PCT FROM 9.75 PCT, EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY




MAY AJUSTED STERLING BANK LENDING UP 2.7 BILLION STG
AFTER 1.5 BILLION IN APRIL - OFFICIAL




UAE CENTRAL BANK CD YIELDS RISE
    ABU DHABI, April 13 - 
Yields on certificates of deposit (CD) offered by the United Arab
Emirates Central Bank were higher than last Monday's offering, the
bank said. The one-month CD rose 1/4 point to 6-3/8 pct, while the
two, three and six-month maturities rose 5/16 point each to 6-7/16,
6-1/2 and 6-5/8 pct respectively.

WOJNILOWER SEES DROP IN U.S. INTEREST RATES
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
The Federal Reserve will promote lower interest rates this year to
sustain world economic growth, First Boston Corp managing director
Albert Wojnilower said. As much as the Fed would like to take a tough
line against inflation, it cannot act to slow the growth of credit
without subverting national U.S. economic policy. "On selected
occasions when the dollar seems steady, and, because the trade deficit
is not responding, the United States decided to push Germany and Japan
harder to meet their commitments to economic growth, the Federal
Reserve will do its part by moving rates down," Wojnilower said in a
report. "Justifiably not anticipating either a recession or seriously
higher interest rates, securities market participants have seen little
to fear," Wojnilower said. He said last week's "hiccup" in money and
currency rates and bond and stock prices was probably caused by
Japanese window dressing for March 31 end-of-fiscal-year accounts.
Wojnilower said the U.S. probably enjoyed above-average economic
growth in the first quarter. However, the pick-up seems to reflect an
unsustainable pace of inventory building and the prospect for the full
year is still for real gross national product growth of about 2-1/2
pct, he said.

FREDDIE MAC ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT RATES
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp adjusted the rates on its short-
term discount notes as follows: MATURITY RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 33
days 6.00 pct 6.00 pct 33 days

BUDGET CHIEF MILLER WARNS FED ON INTEREST RATES
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
White House Budget chief James Miller said he was concerned that the
Federal Reserve might "overreact" to the decline in the value of the
U.S. dollar by raising interest rates, a move he said could cause a
recession next year. "Our greatest danger is overreaction," Miller
told newspaper reporters yesterday. "I'm concerned about the Fed's
overreaction. I'm concerned about what I see in recent data showing a
substantial fall in the money supply." Edwin Dale, Miller's spokesman,
said the remarks, published in the New York Times today, were
accurate. Miller said he was concerned the Fed might overreact to
signals of rising inflation by tightening credit -- a move he said
could have "political consequences." The White House budget chief
appeared to be referring to the effect an economic slowdown could have
on the presidential and congressional elections next year. "My fear is
that if we get into a recession we are in deep soup, and there is no
question about it," he said. Miller said an economic slowdown could
lead to lower tax revenues and a widening of the budget deficit.
Miller's remarks reflected concern that the U.S. central bank might
feel compelled to tighten credit as a means of bolstering the dollar.
Both Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Board Chairman
Paul Volcker recently have warned that further declines in the value
of the U.S. dollar could jeopardize global growth prospects. U.S.
officials have urged Japan and West Germany to stimulate economic
growth in their countries -- a move that could boost U.S. exports and
relieve trade protectionist pressures in the United States.

BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED AT 7-3/4 PCT - OFFICIAL




SALLIE MAE ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
The Student Loan Marketing Association said its rates on short-term
discount notes were as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY
5-14 days 5.80 pct 5.75 pct 5-14 days 15-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct
15-85 days 5.80 pct 86-91 days 5.00 pct 92-176 days 5.83 pct 177-183
days 5.00 pct 184-360 days

NATIONAL MUTUAL CUTS AUSTRALIAN PRIME TO 17.75 PCT
    MELBOURNE, April 24 - 
National Mutual Royal Bank Ltd said it would cut its prime rate to
17.75 pct from 18.25, effective April 27. The cut follows a trend
toward lower rates started last month and accelerated by Westpac
Banking Corp, which yesterday cut its prime to 17.50 pct from 18.25
pct. Westpac's 17.50 pct is the lowest prevailing rate.

BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 1,200 BILLION YEN IN BILLS
    TOKYO, June 29 - 
The Bank of Japan will tomorrow sell 1,200 billion yen in bills from
its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 2,100
billion, money market traders said. Of the total, 800 billion yen will
yield 3.6004 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities
houses in 34-day repurchase agreements maturing on August 3. The other
200 billion yen will yield 3.6003 pct in 43-day repurchase accords
maturing on August 12. The remaining 200 billion yen will yield 3.6503
pct in 50-day repurchase agreements maturing on August 19. The
repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.5625 pct one-month
commercial bill discount rate today and 3.6250 pct on two-month bills.
They attributed the projected surplus mainly to 1,900 billion yen of
government tax allocations to local governments and public bodies.

U.S. TRUST CO <USTC> RAISES BROKER LOAN RATE
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
U.S. Trust Co said it raised its broker loan rate to 7-3/4 pct from
7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Bankers Trust Co <BT>, which also
quotes its broker loan rate publicly, raised its rate to 7-1/2 pct
earlier today.

CHEMICAL <CHL>, MARINE MIDLAND <MM> CUT PRIME
    NEW YORK, Oct 20 - 
Chemical Bank and Marine Midland Banks Inc said they are cutting their
prime lending rate to 9-1/4 pct from 9-3/4 pct, reversing an increase
that they announced just last week. The reduction is effective
immediately. No other major U.S. bank had followed the lead of
Chemical and Marine Midland, preferring to keep their prime rates at
9-1/4 pct while they waited to see what course money market rates
would take. Following Monday's record fall in Wall Street stock
prices, money market rates fell sharply on Tuesday as investors
ploughed proceeds into short-term instruments and the Federal Reserve
said it is prepared to provide liquidity to support the economy and
the financial system. Eurodollar deposit rates in London fell by as
much as 9/16 percentage point, Treasury bill rates fell by as much as
half a point (after falling between 59 and 84 basis points on Monday),
and the Fed funds rate dropped to 7-1/4 pct from Monday's average of
7.61 pct. Speculation even surfaced of a discount rate cut to calm the
markets, dealers said.

CANADA BANK RATE RISES TO 8.59 PCT
    OTTAWA, June 18 - 
Canada's bank rate rose marginally to 8.59 pct from 8.58 pct last
week, Bank of Canada said. The bank rate is set one-quarter percentage
point above the average yield on the weekly issue of 91-day treasury
bills. This week's yield was 8.34 pct, compared with the previous
week's 8.33 pct. Tenders were accepted for 2.20 billion dlrs of 91-day
bills at an average price of 97.963 dlrs against 97.965 dlrs last
week. The 1.20 billion dlrs of 182-day bills were priced at an average
95.852 dlrs against 95.779 dlrs last week, to yield an average 8.68
pct against 8.84 pct last week. The 500 mln dlrs of 364-day bills were
priced at an average 91.712 dlrs against 91.529 dlrs last week, to
yield an average 9.06 pct against 9.28 pct last week. Tenders will be
received next week for 2.20 billion dlrs of 91-day bills, 1.20 billion
dlrs of 182-day bills and 500 mln dlrs of 364-day bills.

WESTPAC DROPS NEW ZEALAND INDICATOR LENDING RATE
    WELLINGTON, June 3 - 
Westpac Banking Corp <WSTP.S> said it is cutting its indicator lending
rate to 22 pct from 23 pct effective from June 15. Westpac said in a
statement various other lending rates are also being revised
downwards. The Westpac move follows base rate drops by other New
Zealand trading banks recently. <Bank of New Zealand's> base rate
drops to 22 pct from 23 on June 16 and <National Bank of New Zealand
Ltd's> rate falls to 21.50 pct from 23 on June 15. The Australia and
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> rate remains at 23 pct.

Bundesbank's Schlesinger says no plan to cut discount rate-Nihon Keizai newspaper




Nakasone, Sumita agree discount rate cut not appropriate now - central bank sources




BUNDESBANK REPORTED TO HAVE NO PLAN FOR RATE CUT
    TOKYO, June 1 - 
Bundesbank Deputy President Helmut Schlesinger said the West German
central bank had no plan to cut its three pct discount rate, Nihon
Keizai newspaper reported. The financial daily quoted Schlesinger as
saying in an interview that the bank would try to maintain current
interest rate levels for the time being. He also told the newspaper he
saw no need for large-scale intervention in the foreign exchange
market because exchange rates are stable. Earlier, Schlesinger told a
press conference that the Bundesbank would continue its policy of
maintaining short-term interest rates at a low level for currency
stability. He also said he was satisfied with the current dollar/mark
exchange rate but added that he was not certain if it was ideal for
the West German economy.

FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES
    NEW YORK, April 8 - 
The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government
securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer
repurchase agreements, economists said. Economists expect the Fed to
execute 2.0-2.5 billion dlrs of customer repos to offset pressures
from the end of the two-week bank reserve maintenance period today.
Some also look for a permanent reserve injection to offset seasonal
pressures via an outright purchase of bills or coupons this afternoon.
The Federal funds rate opened at 6-3/8 pct and remained at that level,
up from yesterday's 6.17 pct average.

U.K. BANKERS CONSIDER NEW ECGD FINANCING PLAN
    LONDON, June 1 - 
Representatives of major U.K. Based banks are meeting here today to
consider a new plan for reducing the cost of financing British exports
guaranteed by the Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD), senior
banking sources said. The plan is being developed in conjunction with
the ECGD and the Bank of England. Neither the ECGD nor the Bank of
England would comment on the plan. However, bankers said one of the
main points under discussion is a plan to refinance the bulk of the
ECGD's medium term credit portfolio in the international capital
markets. The proposals involve introducing a set of interest margins
on ECGD backed debt of 5/16 to 7/8 pct, depending on the size and
maturity of the credit and the currency. The banks are likely to push
for a higher margin. Bankers said that while these rates would reduce
a bank's return they would still be more than those proposed about a
year ago when the government attempted unsuccessfully to initiate
another cost reduction plan. At the same time, the banks would be
expected to allow the ECGD to realise additional savings by
refinancing existing government backed credit in the capital markets.
On credits that are refinanced an original lender would receive a
residual margin of 7/16 pct for loans up to 10 mln stg and 3/16 pct on
larger transactions.

GERMAN BANKERS' REMARKS REVIVE TALK OF RATE CUT
    FRANKFURT, April 9 - 
Remarks by two leading central bankers sparked renewed speculation in
financial markets that a cut in the West German three pct discount
rate may be under discussion, currency dealers said. Bundesbank board
member Claus Koehler said in a speech that monetary growth resulting
from speculative capital inflows required cuts in interest rates.
Separately, West Berlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss told
journalists that the discount rate could fall below its lowest ever
point of 2.75 pct. He made clear that he was not making a forecast on
interest rates, however. Currency dealers here and in the Far East
said the dollar gained slight background support from the speculation.
But German dealers noted that the Bundesbank kept the 3.80 pct rate
unchanged at which it offered liquidity to the money market this week,
dashing some expectations that it may either offer lower fixed rate
money or offer a reduced minimum rate and let the strength of banks'
demands set the allocation rate. It allocated 6.1 billion marks in new
liquidity, much less than the 14.9 billion leaving the market as a
prior pact expired. This further weakened sentiment the Bundesbank
could move to a more accommodative monetary stance, dealers said.
Koehler said in a speech in Surrey, England, speculative capital
inflows may cause monetary growth, regardless of whether central banks
intervened or exchange rates fell. "In other words, the monetary
policy measures required are different from -- and sometimes
diametrically opposed to -- those needed when the money stock is
increasing as a result of mounting economic activity." Though Koehler
was known to be the most liberal of the generally monetarist
Bundesbank board, his comments marked the first time cuts in rates had
been concretely suggested as a counterpoint to overly strong monetary
growth, dealers said. REUTER^M 

BANK OF FRANCE CUTS SEVEN-DAY REPURCHASE RATE TO EIGHT
PCT FROM 8-1/4 PCT - OFFICIAL




BUNDESBANK SETS NEW REPURCHASE TENDER
    FRANKFURT, June 2 - 
The Bundesbank set a new tender for a 28-day securities repurchase
agreement, offering banks liquidity aid at a minimum bid rate of 3.50
pct, a central bank spokesman said. Banks must make their bids by 1400
GMT today and funds allocated will be credited to accounts tomorrow.
Banks must repurchase securities pledged on July 1.

 French 13-week T-Bill rate rises to 8.54 pct from 7.65 -- Bank of France




 Poehl says German and international interest rate rises are cause for concern




UPTREND REMAINS INTACT FOR DEBT FUTURES
    CHICAGO, June 19 - 
The six basis point rise of the past month in U.S. debt futures may be
extended next week by a series of U.S. economic reports, analysts
said, as long as the dollar holds firm. "Interest rates have declined
by approximately 50 basis points over the last month, largely over
indications that inflation is not as high as people had feared and the
narrowing U.S. trade balance, in nominal terms," Samuel Kahan, chief
financial economist with Kleinwort Benson Government Securities, said.
Kahan said recent government reports have shown strength in the
economy during the first quarter, but his concern is whether the U.S.
economy will sustain that strength in the longer term. Weak U.S.
economic growth could hurt the dollar, which has become more important
to the direction of debt futures than the beneficial impact on
interest rates of a sluggish economy. The median trade expectations
for Tuesday's U.S. Consumer Price Index and Durable Goods reports are
up 0.4 pct and down 1.5 pct, respectively. Meanwhile, the eight
billion dlr drop in the M-1 money supply announced this week was
"surprising, much larger than expected," according to Kahan. "Unless
quickly reversed," such a trend "will ensure that June M-1 growth will
be negative," Kahan said. Taken in conjunction with M-2 and M-3
aggregates which Kahan said have "slowed to a crawl, below Federal
Reserve Board annual targets," the consequences could be a hint of
economic weakness down the road, he said. Based on chart formations,
T-bond futures may be poised for further gains, although the advance
has been slowed recently, analysts said. September T-bonds "are up
almost six points since about May 18," Merrill Lynch debt analyst Jim
Duggan noted. September bond futures climbed from the low of 87 a
month ago to over 93 in mid-June, Duggan said. While follow-through
buying has aided the advance so far, and bouts of short covering have
prohibited a slide through chart support, the rally in September
T-bonds has been thwarted above the 93 level. "The 93 level is
formidable resistance and must be taken out before this activity is
anything other than a trading range market," Carroll McEntee and
McGinley Futures debt analyst Brian Singer said. The dollar remains
the key fundamental factor, and the U.S. currency has made little
headway of late, analysts said. "The critical variable remaining in
the market is the value of the dollar," Kahan said. Additional
influences next week will be possible developments ahead of an OPEC
members meeting, and the impact and size of the U.S. budget deficit,
"although these will not be in the forefront of the market early next
week," Kahan said. In looking ahead to the U.S. Treasury mini-
refunding auctions of 24.25 billion in T-notes on Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday, Singer said the market will likely greet the results
with little excitement. However, a successful auction could prove to
be a turning point, depending on prevailing market psychology.

BELGIUM CUTS TREASURY CERTIFICATE RATES
    BRUSSELS, June 18 - 
The Belgian National Bank said it cut one, two, and three month
treasury certificate rates, all by 0.10 points, effective immediately.
The cuts take the one month rate to 6.75 pct, the two month rate to
6.80 pct and the key three month rate to 6.85 pct, the central bank
said in a telex. A National Bank spokesman said the modest cut was
made after a decline in domestic money market rates yesterday, and was
not expected to be followed by a cut in the 7.60 pct discount rate.
The short-term treasury certificate rates, and especially the three-
month rate, have been the National Bank's main monetary policy
instrument for the last two years. The discount rate has been the
market's penalty rate rather than a guiding rate since 1985, and its
advances are currently little used as liquidity is ample, bank
economists said. The bank last cut one- to three-month certificate
rates on June 5, also by 0.10 points.

NAKASONE, SUMITA AGREE RATE CUT NOT APPROPRIATE
    TOKYO, June 2 - 
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone today agreed with Bank of Japan
governor Satoshi Sumita that a further cut in the discount rate was
not appropriate at present, central bank sources said. They told
Reuters the two discussed the subject at a routine meeting. Sumita
told Nakasone he did not feel a rate cut was appropriate and Nakasone
expressed his understanding, the sources said. Currency dealers have
speculated that Japan and West Germany might come under pressure at
next week's Venice summit to cut interest rates to boost their
economies. Nakasone, but not Sumita, is due to attend the summit.

FED SETS OVERNIGHT SYSTEM REPURCHASES, FED SAYS




DONALD REGAN SAYS U.S. SHOULD EASE CREDIT SUPPLY
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
Donald Regan, President Reagan's former chief of staff, said the
government should loosen the money supply, try to keep interest rates
down and try to reduce the federal budget and trade deficits to avoid
a recession. "I think what we have to face now is trying to preserve
our economy," the one-time chairman of Merrill Lynch and Co Inc <MER>
said in an interview on the ABC television network. "We've got to
loosen money, we've got to keep interest rates down. We can't afford
to let them go up. That means we're going to have to work on our twin
deficits, both the budget deficit and the trade deficit," Regan said.
"I certainly wouldn't tighten money at this particular moment," Regan
said when asked about the prospects for a recession following Monday's
price drop on Wall Street. "I think that if they were to do that,
they'd create the same conditions that we did in '29...They choked off
the money supply and what happened? We went into a major recession. I
think that's the one thing we've got to avoid right now." Regan also
called on the government to impose restrictions on program trading. "I
think that that's exacerbated, exaggerated this decline, and I think
it's something that they must stop," he said.

POEHL SPEAKS AGAINST GERMAN INTEREST RATE CUT
    BONN, June 29 - 
Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said West Germany would be badly
advised to lower interest rates and that he believed the economy would
continue to recover after a six-month lull. Asked by the newspaper
Bild am Sonntag if lower interest rates could boost the domestic
economy, Poehl said: "We would be badly advised if we forced further
interest rate cuts. "This could, under certain circumstances, release
new inflationary fears which would then be more likely to lead to
higher interest rates," he added. Poehl said Germany had practically
no growth in the past six months because of the mark's surge and the
cold winter. "But since April, statistics clearly show that the
economy finds itself on a course of growth," he said. "I expect this
development to continue in the coming months." Asked about his
expectations of a U.S.-European Community trade war, Poehl said such
an event would be disastrous. "For this reason we in Europe must avoid
everything used by protectionist forces in the U.S. As pretexts," he
added. "This includes...Eliminating existing restrictions in the EC as
far as possible. Protectionism is not found only in the U.S."

WINDOW FOR BANK AID IN KUWAIT REMAINS SHUT
    KUWAIT, June 1 - 
The Kuwait Central Bank kept its window for funds to the domestic
interbank deposit market shut as banks returned from a four day
holiday, dealers said. The move drove short-term interest rates
sharply higher, with overnight and tomorrow-next funds more than
doubling from last Wednesday and hitting 20 pct. There were few offers
in a tight market and traders scrambled for any available funds. One-
month to one-year deposits were indicated one point higher at eight,
seven pct but there was little activity at the longer end of the
market. Bankers see the suspension of central bank aid as a deliberate
move to drive up Kuwaiti dinar interest rates and stem a flow of funds
out of the country, where market nervousness is increasing over the
growing tension in the Gulf. The central bank's move has been combined
with a steady cut in the dinar exchange rate. Today's rate was reduced
to 0.27939/73 to the dollar from 0.27758/92 on Wednesday before the
four day bank holiday that celebrated the end of the fasting month of
Ramadan.

FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term
discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-140
days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-179 days 141-160 days 6.13 pct 6.08 pct
180-200 days 161-182 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 201-274 days 183-200 days
6.17 pct 6.18 pct 275-290 days 201-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 291-360
days

BANKERS TRUST <BT> RAISES BROKER LOAN RATE
    NEW YORK, April 13 - 
Bankers Trust Co said it is raising its broker loan rate to 7-1/2 pct
from 7-1/4 pct, effective immediately. U.S. Trust Co, the only other
bank to publicize its broker rate, was already posting 7-1/2 pct.

CCC INTEREST HIGHER IN JUNE, USDA SAYS
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
Interest rates on commodity loans disbursed by the Commodity Credit
Corporation (CCC) this month will carry a 6-7/8 pct interest rate, the
U.S. Agriculture Department said. That is up from the May rate of
6-1/4 pct and reflects the interest rate charged the CCC by the U.S.
Treasury in June, USDA noted.

Tokyo - Bundesbank's Schlesinger sees no reason to lower interest rates




U.K. CHANCELLOR LAWSON SAYS THERE MAY BE NEED TO CUT
INTEREST RATES IN SOME COUNTRIES




U.K. CREDIT POLICY SEEN STEADY, DESPITE BANK DATA
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
An unexpectedly heavy 4.4 billion stg surge in U.K. September sterling
bank lending is unlikely to nudge the Bank of England towards
tightening monetary policy as long as sterling remains in its present
robust state, economists said. An acute crisis of confidence in equity
markets over the past two days will in any case subdue personal
consumer credit demand which has largely been behind growth in
lending. "In the normal course of events the markets would have been
extremely worried about that figure," noted Peter Spencer, U.K.
Economist with Credit Suisse First Boston. After an initial dip in
reaction to the bank lending data, which compared won stg August rise,
U.K. Government bonds (gilts) soared as investors continued to flee
from plummetting equities into the relative security of government
securities. Equity markets dropped sharply on the news, touching a
day's low of 1,766.7 on the FTSE 100 index after the data, before
staging a recovery. Sterling held its buoyant tone throughout. U.K.
Money market rates, in a similarly calm response, resumed the slightly
easier trend of earlier in the morning after little more than a token
blip as the figures came out. Noting that such a huge rise in credit
extended by banks would under other circumstances have prompted market
fears of a rise in clearing bank base rates from the current 10 pct,
"With the financial markets doing what they're doing, that's the last
thing the Bank of England would want to do," Spencer said. "The
monetary situation is clearly very bad but as long as sterling is
firm, the authorities are unlikely to put rates up," said Kevin
Boakes, chief U.K. Economist at Greenwell Montagu Gilt Edged. Boakes
pointed to a rise in the narrow money measure M0 to 5.2 pct year-on-
year from August's 4.5 pct growth, which he said must cause some
concern at the Treasury. But "The fact that overall broad money growth
has slowed down is a rather encouraging sign," noted Paul Temperton,
U.K. Economist with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. He pointed to a
fall in the year-on-year growth rate of the M3 broad money aggregate
to 19.5 pct in September from August's 22 pct. It was concern about
credit growth which prompted the Bank of England to engineer a one
point rise in U.K. Bank base rates to 10 pct in early August, caution
endorsed subsequently by news of a massive 4.9 billion stg July rise
in bank lending. Temperton noted that a particular focus of bank worry
in that period had been the behaviour of U.K. Asset markets. Housing
and equities were the key two asset markets in influencing consumer
behaviour, he said. In the light of the precipitous falls on U.K.
Equity markets in the past few days, "There will almost certainly be a
straightforward impact on consumer spending and on retail sales,"
Temperton said. "Almost certainly we can look forward to slower growth
in consumer borrowing if the equity shakeout continues," he added. "I
think the stock market has decided that the bank lending figure is a
thing of the past...We are talking about a very serious panic and a
flight to quality," Spencer said. A U.K. Treasury official said that
it was important to look at all the monetary information, not just the
bank lending, adding that monetary aggregates were growing much more
slowly than bank lending. Senior banking sources noted that the surge
in bank lending was evidence of the continuing recent trend of fairly
heavy personal sector borrowing. Figures from the Banking Information
Service showed personal sector lending by U.K. Clearing banks rose by
1.66 billion stg in September after a 978 mln stg August rise. Much of
the rise reflected quarterly interest payments.

BANK OF JAPAN DETERMINED TO KEEP EASY MONEY POLICY
    TOKYO, June 29 - 
The Bank of Japan bought 100 billion yen in certificates of deposit
(CDs) via repurchase agreements today to show its determination to
maintain an easy money policy, central bank officials said. "Today's
CD buying operation was designed to seek an announcement effect, in
which we would reassure the market of the fact that we have not
changed our policy stance," a senior central bank official told
Reuters. The bank also bought 400 billion yen in two-month commercial
bills to smooth out tight credit conditions in the interbank market
today, the officials said. The central bank was concerned about
growing market expectations of higher interest rates, which were in
part responsible for the recent plunge in stock and yen bond prices,
the officials said. But money traders said the market generally
shrugged off the bank's CD operation because it was small and at a
rate far below prevailing market rates. The rate on the key three-
month CDs in the primary market was 4.08/00 pct, while the bank's bid
was 3.75 pct, they said. The bank's bill buying operation also had
little impact because it was regarded as a routine operation, they
said. The money traders said they regarded the central bank's CD
buying operation as simply a gesture to live up to Japan's pledge to
guide interest rates lower and stimulate the economy. "We did not
expect the central bank to ease its credit grip any further," a bank
manager said, adding that the prevailing market expectation of higher
rates will remain. "If this is the case, the three-month CD rate will
stay above four pct for the time being," he said.

LAWSON SAYS UK INTEREST RATE PROSPECTS UNCHANGED
    LONDON, Oct 20 - 
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said the collapse of
British share prices this week held no implication so far for domestic
interest rates. He said in a television interview that "there is
nothing in the events of the past few days to increase the upward
pressure on (U.K.) interest rates." Sterling has so far stayed solid
during the crisis, backed by strong economic fundamentals and by 10
pct bank base lending rates, analysts said. Lawson's comments followed
another frantic day in London's financial center, where British shares
closed 12.2 pct down on the day.

NAT WEST CUTS MORTGAGE RATE FOR NEW BORROWERS
    London, JUNE 18 - 
National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L> announced a 0.75 pct reduction
in the mortgage interest rate applicable to new mortgages taken out
from June 19, 1987. The new rate is 10.5 pct (APR - Annual Percentage
Rate - 11.2 pct including fees for normal repayment mortgages, and
11.1 pct including fees for endowment and pension mortgages). A
spokesman for Nat West said the position for existing mortgages is
being kept under active review in the light of market conditions, and
an announcement will be made as soon as possible.

AVERAGE YEN CD RATES FALL IN LATEST WEEK
    TOKYO, April 10 - 
Average interest rates on yen certificates of deposit (CD) fell to
4.13 pct in the week ended April 8 from 4.33 pct the previous week,
the Bank of Japan said. New rates (previous in brackets) - Average CD
rates all banks 4.13 pct (4.33) Money Market Certificate (MMC) ceiling
rates for week starting from April 13 - 3.38 pct (3.58) Average CD
rates of city, trust and long-term banks - Less than 60 days 4.15 pct
(4.41) 60-90 days 4.14 pct (4.29) Average CD rates of city, trust and
long-term banks - 90-120 days 4.12 pct (4.25) 120-150 days 4.12 pct
(4.23) 150-180 days unquoted (4.03) 180-270 days 4.05 pct (4.05) Over
270 days 4.05 pct (unqtd) Average yen bankers acceptance rates of
city, trust and long-term banks - 30 to less than 60 days 3.98 pct
(4.20) 60-90 days 4.03 pct (3.97) 90-120 days unquoted (unqtd)

U.S. HOUSE SPEAKER WRIGHT CONCERNED of INTEREST RATE RISE UNDER GREENSPAN




FDIC'S SEIDMAN SAYS HIGHER RATES COULD HARM BANKS
    DALLAS, Oct 19 - 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp Chairman William Seidman said he would
be concerned about the impact on banks of a further sharp rise in
interest rates. However, Seidman, attending the American Bankers
Association convention, said he did not expect rates to rise much
higher and said the outlook for the U.S. economy and for banking was
sound. "The potential for greater interest rate rises gives us
concern. We see nothing right now in the outlook that causes us to
believe rates are going much higher or that the economy is not sound,"
Seidman told a news conference.

REAGAN SEES ROOM FOR INTEREST RATE DECLINES
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
President Reagan said he was pleased with the actions of some banks to
reduce their prime lending rates today and said he sees room for a
further decline in interest rates. "I believe there is room in the
market for a further decline in interest rates," Reagan said in a
statement as he left the White House to visit his wife Nancy at
Bethesda Naval Hospital. Reagan's statement followed a meeting with
his top economic advisers. Reagan said he remains concerned about the
market, but that actions taken by the Federal Reserve have helped.
"Interest rates are down across the spectrum," Reagan said.
"Specifically, I am pleased that the bond market is strong and that
foreign exchange markets are stable," Reagan said.

U.S. TO END NETHERLANDS ANTILLES TAX TREATY
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
The Treasury Department said it notified the Netherlands that it was
terminating the 1948 income tax treaty as it applies to the
Netherlands Antilles and Aruba. The termination is effective January
1, 1988, the Treasury said in a two-sentence announcement. The
Treasury decided to end the treaty after negotiations between the
United States and the Netherlands over the past eight years had failed
to reach an accord, a Treasury spokesman said. The decision means the
sale by U.S. parent companies of Eurobonds through Netherlands
Antilles subsidiaries will no longer be free of the 30 pct U.S.
withholding tax, the spokesman said. Terminating the tax treaty with
the Netherlands Antilles may cause bond issuers to call in the bonds
early. Most have maturities of 10 years or less and were issued before
1984, the spokesman said. He said the Treasury did not expect the
action to have an adverse effect on U.S. issuers of the bonds because
the general decline in interest rates means they will be able to
refinance at lower interest rates. However, the holders of the bonds
presumably will be faced with lower yields.

U.S. BILL AUCTION RATES AVERAGE 5.98, 6.08 PCT
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
The U.S. Treasury said its weekly auction of three-month bills
produced an average rate of 5.98 pct, with a 6.08 pct rate on six-
month bills. These rates compared with averages of 5.53 pct for the
three- and 5.63 pct for the six-month bills sold last week. The bond-
equivalent yield on three-month bills was 6.17 pct. Accepted bids
ranges from 5.92 to 5.99 pct and 60 pct of the bids at the high, or
stopout rate, were taken. For six months, the yield was 6.38 pct and
the bids ranged from 5.98 pct to 6.10 pct with 48 pct of the bids
accepted. The Treasury said it received 25.99 billion dlrs of bids for
the three-month bills, including 1.2 billion dlrs in non-competitive
bids from the public. It accepted 6.6 billion dlrs of bids, including
2.1 billion dlrs from the Federal Reserve and 180 mln dlrs from
foreign and international monetary authorities. Some 24.7 billion dlrs
in bids for six-month bills were received, including 832 mln dlrs in
non-competitives. The Treasury accepted 6.6 billion dlrs, including
1.8 billion dlrs from the Fed and 1.2 billion dlrs from foreign and
international authorities. The average price for the three-month bills
was 98.488 and prices ranged from 98.504 to 98.486. The average price
for the six-months bills was 96.926, and prices ranged from 96.977 to
96.916. The average yield on the three-month bills was the highest
since 5.99 pct on June 30, 1986. The average yield on the six-month
bills was the highest since 6.13 pct on June 23, 1986.

FIRST REPUBLIC BANK DALLAS CUTS PRIME RATE TO 9.25 PCT FROM 9.75 PCT, EFFECTIVE TODAY




POEHL SAYS RATE RISES ARE CAUSE FOR CONCERN
    FRANKFURT, Oct 20 - 
Rises in West German and international interest rates are a cause for
concern and the Bundesbank has no interest in higher capital market
rates, Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said. "We consider the
interest rate increase that has occurred here and internationally to
be a problem and cause for concern," Poehl told an investment
conference. "I would like to stress that the Bundesbank has no
interest in higher capital market rates," he said. Shortly after Poehl
spoke, the Bundesbank announced a tender for a securities repurchase
pact at a fixed rate of 3.80 pct. Previous tenders over the last month
by interest rate have seen the allocation rate on these facilities
rise to 3.85 pct at last week's pact from 3.60 on the last fixed-rate
tender in late September. The Bundesbank's reduction of the key
allocation rate to 3.80 from 3.85 pct was heralded Monday by repeated
injections of money market liquidity at between 3.70 and 3.80 pct.
These moves to cap interest rates followed a meeting between Poehl,
Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and U.S. Treasury Secretary James
Baker Monday in Frankfurt. Officials said afterwards the three men had
reaffirmed their commitment to the Louvre accord on currency
stability. Over the weekend, criticism by Baker of the tightening in
West German monetary policy had prompted a sharp fall of the dollar on
speculation that Louvre cooperation had ended. But the dollar rallied
on news of Monday's meeting in nervous trading to trade above 1.79
marks Tuesday. Poehl said that the recent rise in interest rates was
not due to central bank policy, but to markets' expectations, and
currency developments. Commenting on the inflationary expectations,
Poehl said "You have to get to the root of the problem, you have to
pursue a policy which reveals that there are no grounds for such
fears." The inflationary fears were unjustified and exaggerated, he
said. Poehl rebuffed recent U.S. Criticism of West Germany, saying the
Bundesbank had made a substantial contribution to international
cooperation in interest and monetary policy. The Bundesbank has
tolerated an overshooting of its money supply target, arousing
criticism from other quarters, he said. "Today we still have lower
interest rates than at the end of 1986... Quite the contrary of other
countries, where interest rates have risen substantially more," Poehl
said. This had to be taken into account when considering recent rises
in repurchase pact allocation rates, which were due to rising
international money market rates that had spilled over into the German
market, he said. Poehl expressed surprise that financial markets had
so far ignored improvements in the U.S. Deficits. "The adjustment
process in the U.S. Trade balance is definitely underway," he said,
noting that this was not so noticeable in absolute figures. The
spectacular improvement in the budget deficit had also attracted
little attention, he said.

CANADA 91-DAY T-BILLS AVERAGE 6.95 PCT, MAKING BANK RATE 7.20 PCT




U.K. LENDERS OFFER MORE FIXED RATE MORTGAGES
    LONDON, June 19 - 
More U.K. Lenders are offering homebuyers fixed interest rate
mortgages under which the borrower makes the same monthly payment no
matter what happens to other interest rates. And with mortgage rates
now at their lowest levels in years, the loans have been snapped up by
eager home buyers trying to lock into cheap money. The decision to
offer fixed rate loans, industry officials said, reflects the
increasingly competitive nature of the home mortgage business. While
fixed rate mortgages are uncommon in the U.K., They were the mainstay
of the business in the U.S. Up until only a few years ago. But in the
early 1980s interest rates soared. U.S. Lenders, mostly savings and
loan associations, were earning rates as low as three pct on 30 year
fixed rate mortgages they held in their portfolios but had to pay
depositors rates as high as 15 pct to induce them to retain their
accounts. As a result hundreds of institutions collapsed or were
forced to merge. The survivors decided to offer mortgages whose rates
would move in line with the cost of funds. "We very much have the
example of the U.S. Thrifts in mind," said a spokesman for Abbey
National Building Society, explaining why his institution, for the
time being, is only offering variable rate mortgages. The rash of
advertising to solicit new business has helped homebuyers to become
even choosier about loans and lenders concede they are being forced to
undercut each other still more. Sharp cuts on variable rate mortgages
announced earlier this week by the nation's two largest building
societies and by National Westminster Bank Plc reflect growing
competition for new business, officials at all three institutions
said. The fixed rate mortgages on offer carry interest rates even
below those on the variable rate loans. "Of course they are less
profitable than other (variable rate) mortgages," said a spokesman for
Midland Bank Plc, which earlier this year said it earmarked 500 mln
dlrs for fixed rate new mortgage loans. But he said the bank is
willing to offer less profitable loans because, "It was just another
way to attract people to our mortgage product." Trustee Savings Bank
Plc (TSB) was offering five year fixed rate mortgages at 9.9 pct
earlier this year. The 100 mln stg that TSB set aside for the loans
was exhausted within just a few days, according to a spokeswoman.
"Everybody loves an under 10 pct mortgage," she said, noting that
within five days the bank loaned the equivalent of 25 pct of its 1986
volume. In short, the appeal of fixed rate mortgages is that they
offer an opportunity to gamble on the direction of interest rates. If
interest rates fall after the mortgage is made the lender is earning
an above average return on assets. But if interest rates rise it is
the homebuyer who has won the benefit of cheap money. Household
Mortgage Co had planned to offer a 25 year fixed rate mortgage after
the June 11 elections on the assumption that a Conservative Party
victory would help money market rates fall further, according to
Duncan Young, managing director. Young explained that the company had
planned to protect itself against the chance of rising interest rates
by buying a complicated hedging instrument. But money market rates
have risen contrary to expectations and the company has shelved its
plans for the time being. He said money market rates were too high to
arrange both the mortgages and hedge profitably. However, he said that
when the Household Mortgage Co does make fixed rate mortgages it is
likely to securitise them. This means bundling different mortgages
together to resemble a bond and selling them to an investor. For
technical reasons securitisation is simpler and more efficient with
fixed rate rather than with floating rate mortgages. In the U.S.,
Where fixed rate mortgages are popular again, securitisation has
provided the bulk of mortgage money over the past few years.

CANADA 750 MLN DLR T-BILL ISSUE YIELD AVERAGE 8.60 PCT - OFFICIAL           




CITIBANK LOWERS AUSTRALIAN PRIME RATE TO 16 PCT
    SYDNEY, June 18 - 
Citibank Ltd said it would lower its Australian prime rate to 16 pct
from 16.5, effective tomorrow. The new rate, if unmatched by other
banks, will be the lowest among Australian trading banks. Other primes
range from 16.25 to 17.5 pct. Australian prime rates have now
retreated from a recent peak of 19 pct in October in line with
declining money market levels. Citibank said its reduction reflected
the decline.

U.K. CENTRAL BANK WARNS OF EXCESSIVE RATE CUTS
    LONDON, June 19 - 
Bank of England governor Robin Leigh-Pemberton said lowering interest
rates too fast could jeopardise recent economic achievements in the
U.K. In remarks prepared for delivery to businessmen in Birmingham, he
said prospective returns on real investment are more favourable,
relative to those on financial assets, than for a good number of
years. "It would surely be foolish to put that favourable conjuncture
at risk by lowering interest rates prematurely or excessively," he
said. "We might enjoy a short-term boost to activity, but at the risk
of a damaging return to the uncertainty and acrimony of high
inflation," he added. Leigh-Pemberton said he recognised there are
some who would argue that interest rates are still too high and deter
investment in industry. "But we should not forget that less than a
year ago we were intervening to support sterling and had some
temporary difficulty in persuading the markets that a one pct increase
in base rates, to 11 pct, was a sufficient tightening of policy at the
time," he added. Base rate is currently nine pct.

FRENCH 13-WEEK T-BILL AVERAGE RATE RISES TO 7.39 PCT FROM 7.36 PCT - OFFICIAL




FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term
discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-174
days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-87 days 175-190 days 5.85 pct 5.82 pct
88-103 days 191-270 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 104-179 days 271-288 days
5.92 pct 5.85 pct 180-205 days 289-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 206-360
days

BANK OF FRANCE CUTS INTERVENTION RATE TO 7-1/2 PCT FROM
7-3/4 PCT - OFFICIAL




 Top discount rate at U.K. Bill tender rises to 8.7239 pct




