JAPAN CAREFULLY CONSIDERING MONEY POLICY -- SUMITA
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said the central bank will
carefully consider its monetary policy in light of the recent sharp
fall of the dollar. Asked if the Bank of Japan will consider a further
cut in its discount rate, he said he now thinks the bank will have to
carefully consider its future money policy. He told a Lower House
Budget Committee in Parliament that credit conditions have been eased
by the five discount rate cuts by Japan since the beginning of last
year. Japan must now be especially careful about a flare-up in
inflation, with money supply growth accelerating, he said. Sumita said
the central bank would continue to make a judgement on monetary
policies while watching consumer prices, exchange rates and economic
and financial conditions both in and outside Japan. Asked if the
September 1985 Plaza agreement was a failure because the dollar had
fallen too far, Sumita said he still thought the pact was a good one
in the sense that it had corrected the overvaluation of the dollar.
But the Plaza accord did not set any target for the dollar's fall, he
said. The dollar's steep fall stems from the market's belief that the
trade imbalance will continue to expand, he said. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST AT 300 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 11 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a liquidity shortage of around
300 mln stg in the market today. Among the main factors, the Bank said
bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up would
drain 483 mln stg from the system while below target bankers' balances
and a rise in the note circulation would take out 50 mln and 100 mln
stg respectively. Partially offsetting these, exchequer transactions
would add around 355 mln stg, the Bank added. REUTER 

MIYAZAWA SAYS EXCHANGE RATES WILL STAY STABLE
    TOKYO, March 13 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference he thinks
exchange rates will remain stable due to the currency accord reached
in Paris last month by six major industrialised nations but he did not
say for how long. The dollar has hovered around 153 yen since the six
agreed to cooperate to bring about currency stability. Asked to
comment on remarks by some U.S. Officials calling for a further
decline of the dollar, Miyazawa said only the U.S. President and the
U.S. Treasury Secretary can make official statements about exchange
rates. REUTER 

FED SAYS IT BUYS 550 MLN DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER, MAY
THROUGH SEPT 24 MATURITY




FED GOVERNOR SUPPORTS COMMODITY PRICE GUIDE
    WASHINGTON, March 24 - 
Robert Heller, a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, said commodity prices could form a useful guide for
setting domestic and international monetary policy. Speaking to the
conservative Heritage Foundation, Heller said, "A broadly based
commodity price index may be worth exploring" as a guide to monetary
policy. "In times of rising commodity prices, monetary policy might be
tightened and in times of falling commodity prices, monetary policy
might be eased," he said. Commodities are also standardized to avoid
measurement problems and occur at the beginning of production so as to
give "early warning" signs of wholesale and retail changes. "There is
no need to react to every small fluctuation in commodity prices or to
do so on a daily basis," Heller said in a prepared text. "But if
commodity prices exhibit a broad trend, a policy action might be
considered," he said. Heller said using a broad-based commodity price
index as an indicator for monetary policy would also contribute to
stabilized currency exchange rates. Commodity prices are generally
uniform worldwide and prices for them are more consistent than for
other types of goods, he said. He said other beneficial effects would
be to stabilize export commodity prices for developing countries by
using a commodity basket as a guidepost for monetary policy. Reuter 

TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS U.S. BACKS STABILITY
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said the United States and the five
other industrialized nations signing the recent Paris Accord remain
committed to fostering the exchange rate at around current levels. But
he declined to comment on what he believed to be an appropriate level
of the dollar in world markets. "I'm not going to comment on that
because invariably the exchange markets read either more or less into
my remarks than I might intend," he said in response to a question
from the House Appropriations Committee. Baker said the six nations
participating in the Paris meeting in February had "acknowledged that
the currencies are within ranges that are broadly consistent with the
economic fundamentals and we and the others as well remain prepared to
cooperate closely to foster stability in exchange rates around those
levels." Reuter 

TREASURY'S BAKER PURSUING S. ASIAN REVALUATIONS
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker told the House Appropriations Committee
the United States is still pressing newly industrialized south Asian
nations that have tied their currencies to the dollar to let those
currencies strengthen against the U.S. currency. "We have seen some
strengthening of those currencies (but) not as much as we would like,"
he said. "We have been somewhat disappointed in the results so far,
but we intend to continue these discussions," he said. Reuter 

G-10 FINANCE OFFICIALS DISCUSS DEBT, CURRENCIES
    PARIS, March 20 - 
Deputy Finance Ministers from the Group of 10 leading western
industrialised countries met here to discuss the world debt crisis,
trade imbalances and currency stability today following last month's
Paris monetary accord, sources close to the talks said. The officials
met at the offices of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to discuss
broad aspects of world monetary policy in preparation for the IMF's
interim committee meeting in Washington in April. The talks were the
first high-level international review of the monetary situation since
the accord last month reached by the U.S., West Germany, France,
Britain, Japan and Canada to stabilise world currency markets at
around present levels following the 40 pct slide in the dollar since
mid-1985. Other countries represented at today's talks were Italy,
which refused to attend last month's meeting on the grounds that it
was being excluded from the real discussions, the Netherlands, Belgium
and Switzerland. Many of the officials had met earlier today and
yesterday within the framework of the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) to review the slow progress being
made in cutting the record 170 billion dlr U.S. Trade deficit and
persuading West Germany and Japan to open their economies to more
foreign imports. Reuter 

U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST AT 250 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 9 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 250 mln stg
in the money market today. Among the factors affecting liquidity, it
said bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up
would drain around 1.02 billion stg while below target bankers'
balances would take out a further 140 mln. Against this, a fall in the
note circulation would add 345 mln stg and the net effect of exchequer
transactions would be an inflow of some 545 mln stg, the Bank added.
REUTER 

TAIWAN TO STUDY SUSPENDING FOREX CONTROLS
    TAIPEI, March 28 - 
Premier Yu Kuo-Hua ordered financial officials to quicken the pace of
relaxing foreign exchange controls and study the possibility of
suspending the controls, a cabinet statement said. The statement
quoted Yu as telling Finance Ministy and Central Bank officials the
relaxation was needed to help reduce Taiwan's surging foreign exchange
reserves, which reached a record 53 billion U.S. Dollars this month.
Finance Minister Robert Chien told reporters his ministry and the
Central Bank would work jointly on new measures to ease the controls,
but he did not give details. Yu said the government could maintain the
framework of the foreign exchange controls while finding ways to ease
them. The controls would be used during emergency. Taiwan's reserves
have resulted largely from its trade surplus, which hit 15.6 billion
dlrs in 1986 and 10.6 billion in 1985. About 95 pct of the surplus was
from Taiwan's trade with the United States, according to official
figures. But he said that while easing the controls would help reduce
the reserves, it would not do so substantially in a short time.
Economists and bankers said the new decision resulted from growing
pressure from the United States, Taiwan's largest trading partner,
which buys almost half the island's exports. Lu Ming-Jen, economic
professor at Soochow University, told Reuters: "The decision came a
little bit late. But it was better than never." Ko Fei-Lo, Vice
President at First Commercial Bank, said the government should rapidly
relax its foreign exchange controls and open its market wider to help
balance trade with its trading partners, especially the United States.
"The liberalisation in both imports and foreign exchange controls will
not only help our trading partners, but also help our own economic
problems," he said. He said the mounting foreign exchange
reserveshelped boost Taiwan's money supply by 48.22 pct in the year to
end-February. REUTER 

U.S. TREASURY'S MULFORD REAFFIRMS G-6 PACT TO FOSTER CURRENCY STABILITY AROUND CURRENT LEVELS




YEUTTER PUTS CURRENCY BURDEN ON TAIWAN, KOREA
    NEW YORK , March 5 - 
Responsibility for the appreciation of the Taiwan dollar and the South
Korean Won lies soley with those countries, said U.S. trade
representative Clayton Yeutter Speaking to the Asia Society, Yeutter
said that it is in those countries' own long-term interest to raise
the value of their currencies against the dollar. Yeutter was
responding to a question about what the U.S. could do to encourage
appreciation of those currencies against the dollar in order to reduce
the large U.S. trade deficits with Taiwain and Korea. "An undervalued
currency will help those countries' exports in the short term, but in
the long run they have to be concerned about how they are perceived in
the international business community," Yeutter said. For Taiwan,
Yeutter said that with its per capita trade surplus with the U.S.,
much larger than that of Japan's, and with huge foreign exchange
reserves, it was difficult to defend the high import tarrifs and other
barriers that prevail in that country. He also said that the south
Korean Won should begin to move to reflect underlying economic
fundamentals, "otherwise in two or three years' time, Korea will be in
the same situation that prevails in Taiwan." Turning to the U.S.
deficit with Japan of more than 50 billion dlrs, Yeutter said that
this situation was not sustainable. "Something must give soon. If not,
there is a great threat of U.S. legislative action to counteract that
trend," Yeutter said. Reuter 

FRANCE REPAYS SOME OF CURRENCY INTERVENTION DEBT
    PARIS, March 13 - 
France today repaid 21.95 billion francs of short-term currency
intervention debt to the European Monetary Cooperation Fund, EMCF, the
Finance Ministry said. It said the debt was part of a 33.90 billion
franc liability incurred through the activation of EMCF swap
facilities to defend the franc before the January 11 European Monetary
System realignment. The realignment, following several weeks of
speculative pressure, produced a three pct revaluation of the West
German mark and the Dutch guilder against the French franc and a two
pct revaluation of the Belgian franc. REUTER 

VOLCKER SAYS RESTRICTIVE MONETARY POLICY WOULD HURT INVESTMENT




BANK OF FINLAND WILL ANNOUNCE NEW MEASURES
    HELSINKI, March 20 - 
The Bank of Finland called a news conference at 1200 GMT to announce
new measures for the "development of the system of monetary control."
A spokesman for the Bank declined to give further details. Banking
sources said they expected the bank to announce it will actively take
part in the interbank market and buy and sell certificates of deposit.
The state treasury issues government paper with a maturity of up to
one year. The central bank has so far not issued its own paper, the
sources said. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET FORECAST REVISED TO SHOW SURPLUS
    LONDON, March 25 - 
The Bank of England said it had revised its forecast of the liquidity
position in the money market today to a surplus of 150 mln stg after
it estimated a flat position earlier this morning. REUTER 

MONETARY AUTHORITIES SAID TO LOSE CREDIBILITY
    TOKYO, March 26 - 
The monetary authorities of the major industrialised countries lost
their credibility this week as the dollar was sold off despite pleas
from ministers and widespread central bank intervention, dealers said.
The dollar's fall below 150 yen, which follows last month's Paris
currency stabilisation agreement by the U.S., Japan, West Germany,
Britain, France and Canada, is a dramatic reversal of the success of
the Group of Five (G-5) 1985 New York Plaza meeting to weaken the
dollar, they said. The G-5 and the market agreed in 1985 that the
dollar was overvalued but this time the market and the authorities are
on different sides, dealers said. Apparent confusion in the ranks of
the G-5 nations has encouraged the market to challenge the authorities
despite concerted intervention by the central banks of the United
States, Japan, Britain and West Germany, they said. Pleas by Japanese
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa for action to stabilise the dollar
were matched over the weekend by comments by U.S. Treasury Secretary
James Baker that there was no target zone for the dollar. The dollar
was sold anyway. Yesterday's comment by Baker that he stood by the
Paris accord did nothing to reverse sentiment, dealers said. The
intervention, backed by remarks by Fed Chairman Paul Volcker and
Japanese central bank governor Satoshi Sumita, which a few months ago
would have brought the dollar fall to a halt, has done little but slow
the rate of its decline, they noted. The situation has again raised
the question of whether intervention can succeed against the trend in
today's huge currency markets. Dealers said the market's cool response
to intervention reflected a basic oversupply of dollars. "This means
that the current dollar selling is not of a sheer speculative nature
but backed by real demand," said Koichi Miyazaki, deputy general
manager at Sanwa Bank. Dealers said the dollar will remain weak
despite the intervention and it is only a matter of time before some
operators try to push it below 148 yen. The dollar closed in Tokyo
today at 149.40 against New York's 149.30/40. Its record low was
148.40 in Tokyo last Tuesday. Dealers said the dollar will gain only
temporary support to rise above 150 yen toward early April when the
Group of Seven industrial nations meets to discuss currencies again.
The market expects the seven nations (the Paris six plus Italy) to try
to agree on another way to stabilise currencies apart from
intervention, a chief dealer at a U.S. Bank said. Dealers said they
were unsure what other methods could be used and they are sceptical
anyway about how long the Paris accord nations, particulary the U.S.,
Will remain willing to prevent a further dollar fall given the
continuing high U.S. Trade deficit, especially with Japan. Further
pressure from a protectionist U.S. Congress for a lower dollar is also
limiting Washington's options, they said. The market now thinks the
central bank action is to slow the dollar fall, not to push it back
over 150 yen, said Tadahiko Nashimoto, manager at Long Term Credit
Bank of Japan. Another bearish factor for the dollar is expected large
forward dollar sales from April to June for export bills falling due
for Japanese exporters from April to September. The exporters had
delayed in expectation of a further yen depreciation, dealers said.
Yesterday's request to 30 trading houses by the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry to restrict dollar sales looks
ineffective in light of this real demand, they said. The market is
also anticipating active institutional dollar sales to hedge currency
risks on bond holdings from the new business year starting April 1,
dealers said. "The market seems to have established a new dollar
trading range between 147 and 149 yen," one dealer said. The dollar
traded between 151 and 153 yen after the Paris accord on February 22
and 150 yen was then considered the low end for the dollar against the
yen, he said. Some dealers now believe that if the dollar falls below
148 yen, it will pick up renewed downward momentum and slide to 145.
REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET FORECAST REVISED TO DEFICIT
    LONDON, March 26 - 
The Bank of England said it revised its estimate of today's money
market shortfall to around 350 mln stg from a flat position. REUTER 

TREASURY'S BAKER PURSUING S. ASIAN REVALUATIONS
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker told the House Appropriations Committee
the United States is still pressing newly industrialized south Asian
nations that have tied their currencies to the dollar to let those
currencies strengthen against the dollar. "We have seen some
strengthening of those currencies (but) not as much as we would like,"
he said. "We have been somewhat disappointed in the results so far,
but we intend to continue these discussions," he said. Reuter 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 224 MLN STG ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, April 7 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 224 mln
stg help in the morning session. This compares with the Bank's
forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 850 mln stg which
it earlier revised up from 800 mln. The central bank bought bank bills
comprising 27 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 21 mln stg in band two
at 9-13/16 pct and 171 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. It also
purchased three mln stg of treasury bills and two mln stg of local
authority bills in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 16 - 
The Bank of England said it invited an early round of bill offers from
discount houses after forecasting a shortage in the system of some
1.05 billion stg. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills
maturing in official hands and treasury bill take-up will drain some
1.07 billion stg while exchequer transactions will take out around 335
mln stg and bankers' balances below target five mln stg. Partly
offseting these outflows, a fall in note circulation will add some 355
mln stg to the system today. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 215 MLN STG LATE HELP
    LONDON, March 31 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with late
assistance of around 215 mln stg. This takes the bank's total help
today to some 2.096 billion stg and compares with its forecast of a
two billion stg shortage in the system today. REUTER 

SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central
bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange
rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial
nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including
market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris
agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France,
Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising
exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued
after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40.
"It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of
floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150
yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he
said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then
were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and
further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment
prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said. REUTER 

GERMAN CALL MONEY EASES AFTER LIQUIDITY INJECTION
    FRANKFURT, March 11 - 
Call money eased to 3.75/80 pct from 3.80/85 yesterday following a net
injection of 6.7 billion marks at a rate of 3.80 pct in fresh funds
from this week's securities repurchase agreement, dealers said. But
rates were expected to rise toward the end of the week. A major tax
payment period by banks on behalf of customers, payments for the
federal railways loan stock and repayments of mark liabilities
incurred by foreign central banks with the Bundesbank in the framework
of the European Monetary System (EMS) are likely to significantly
burden the system. Banks built up minimum reserves today, ahead of the
expected outflow. The Bundesbank credited banks with a gross 15.2
billion marks, but some 8.5 billion left the system at the same time
as an earlier securities repurchase pact matured. Dealers estimated
the EMS related outflow as high as six billion marks. The Bundesbank
declined to comment, but a spokesman said yesterday although the funds
now due may be allowed to roll over, the possibility that other
central banks may choose to redeem them meant a net infusion was
needed. Dealers forecast tax payments of 25 and 30 billion marks, but
much of it is expected to burden the system only next week. Banks'
minimum reserve holdings at the Bundesbank totalled 53.6 billion marks
on Monday, averaging 54.0 billion over the first nine days of March.
Dealers said although the figure was well above an expected
requirement of around 51 billion marks, the expected outflow of funds
was so large that banks might find it difficult to meet the
requirement toward the end of March. No securities repurchase
agreement is expiring next week, but dealers said the Bundesbank could
offer fresh liquidity if conditions significantly tighten. "The
Bundesbank wants to keep rates around 3.80 pct," one dealer said.
REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 450 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 17 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 450 mln stg
in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity,
bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills
will drain some 650 mln stg while banker's balances below target will
take out around 50 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows,
exchequer transactions and a fall in note circulation will add some
200 mln stg and 50 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 

BANK OF ENGLAND OFFERS EARLY HELP IN MONEY MARKET
    LONDON, March 12 - 
The Bank of England said it had invited the discount houses to make an
early round of bill offers to help offset a large liquidity shortage
in the money market. It estimated the shortage at around 1.55 billion
stg, one adverse factor being the unwinding of a sale and repurchase
agreement, with the market having to buy back bills worth 542 mln stg
from the Bank. Bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill
take-up would drain 957 mln stg wile exchequer transactions and a note
circulation rise would take out 15 mln and 25 mln respectively. Above
target bankers' balances would add 10 mln. REUTER 

ITALY SAYS G-7 GIVES CHANCE TO VERIFY TOKYO ACCORD
    ROME, April 7 - 
This week's Group of Seven (G-7) meeting in Washington provides an
opportunity to verify an accord reached at the Tokyo summit last May
to include Italy and Canada in Group of Five (G-5) talks on management
of the international monetary system and related issues, the Italian
Treasury said. It said in a statement the G-7 meeting, which Italy
plans to attend, will provide a forum for considering the Tokyo accord
in the light of events in Paris in February this year. On February 22,
Italy boycotted a meeting in Paris of its G-7 partners - the United
States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada - after being
excluded from an earlier session of talks involving G-5 members.
Today's statement from the Italian Treasury said- "Nobody denies the
existence of G-5 but we should like it to be remembered that the Tokyo
accords provided for the enlargement of the group to Italy and Canada
whenever "the management or the improvement of the international
monetary economic policy measures are to be discussed or dealt with.'"
Italy refused to attend the Paris G-7 meeting on the grounds that G-5,
grouping the United States, Japan, West Germany, France and Britain,
had reduced Italy's role to rubber stamping agreements already taken.
The Italian Treasury said today that Italy was "certain that this time
incidents would not occur." But it said it would be opportune to look
in depth at the role and the procedures of G-7 in relation to those of
G-5. REUTER 

BAKER SAYS U.S. WILLING TO COOPERATE TO STABILIZE EXCHANGE RATES




BAKER SAYS U.S. WANTS TO STABILIZE EXCHANGE RATES
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said the United States and other
nations were willing to cooperate to stabilize foreign exchange rates
at the levels that existed at the time of an international agreement
last month. "Our position with respect to the dollar goes back to the
Paris Agreement that the currencies were within ranges broadly
consistent with underlying economic conditions," Baker told a Senate
committee. Baker continued, "We said further that we and others are
willing to cooperate closely to foster stability in exchange rates
around those levels." He referred to a February agreement by six
leading industrial nations to cooperate on monetary matters. Baker
refused to answer a question whether Japan and Germany had done enough
to stimulate their domestic economies for the United States to support
the dollar. "I will not comment because the foreign exchange market
reads more or less than is intended in my statements," Baker said.
Baker said that the other signatories recognized that they must carry
their share of the load of correcting external imbalances that have
hindered the world's economy. He cited news reports that Germany would
increase a proposed tax cut for 1988 by about five billion marks to
stimulate domestic growth. Japan also agreed to consider stimulative
measures after the Japanese budget was made final. Baker said those
nations were stimulating their economies in a manner consistent with
gains against inflation. Reuter 

TREASURY SECRETARY BAKER DECLINES COMMENT ON G-6
    NEW YORK, March 11 - 
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker declined comment on the February
22 Paris accord between the six major industrial nations under which
they agreed to foster exchange rate stability. Asked by reporters
after a speech before the National Fitness Foundation banquet what, if
any, currency intervention levels had been set in Paris, Baker
replied: "We never talk about intervention." Baker also declined to
comment on his views about the foreign exchange markets' reaction to
the accord. REUTER 

AFTER G-6, ROUND ONE GOES TO CENTRAL BANKS
    NEW YORK, March 13 - 
Central banks have easily beaten back the foreign exchange market's
first test of the industrialized nations' recent pact to stabilize
currencies, analysts said. In active trading this week, the market
pushed the dollar, sterling, the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar
higher. But operators got their fingers burned as one by one the
central banks signalled their displeasure. "So far G-6 has been a
roaring success,"said James O'Neill, financial markets economist at
Marine Midland Bank NA. "The central banks are sending strong signals
that they won't tolerate any kind of momentum building behind
currencies," added a senior corporate trader at one U.K. bank. On
February 22, the finance ministers and central bank governors of the
U.S., Japan, West Germany, France and the U.K. -- the Group of Five --
plus Canada, signed an accord under which they agreed to cooperate
closely to foster stability of exchange rates around prevailing
levels. The agreement was viewed by many in the market as an attempt
to put a floor under the dollar after its sizeable two-year decline
against major world currencies. And initially, traders indicated their
respect for the accord by refraining from pushing the dollar lower.
But by Wednesday, the dollar climbed to more than 1.87 marks, about
five pfennigs above its levels the Friday before the G-6 accord. The
move was aided by indications that the U.S. economy picked up steam in
February at the same time as the West German economy was regressing.
But dealers said the Federal Reserve Bank of New York gave traders a
sharp reminder that the G-6 pact had encompassed the idea of limiting
inordinate dollar gains as well as declines. Dealers differed as to
whether the U.S. central bank actually intervened to sell dollars
above 1.87 marks, or simply telephoned dealers to ask for quotes and
enquire about trading conditions. But the dollar quickly backed off.
It hovered today around 1.85 marks. "The market was surprised that the
Fed showed its face so soon," said Marine Midland NA's O'Neill. Also
on Wednesday, London dealers said the Bank of England intervened in
the open market to sell sterling as the U.K. currency rose to 1.60
dlrs compared with 1.5355 dlrs before the G-6 pact. Sterling, along
with the other high-yield currencies like the Australian dollar and
Canadian dollar, was in favor after traders surmised that the the
chance of intervention pursuant to the Paris currency accord left
limited room for profit plays on dollar/mark and dollar/yen. The pound
also was boosted by suggestions of an improving U.K. economy,
anticipation of a popular British budget on March 17 and public
opinion polls showing good chances for the incumbent Conservative
party in any general election. "There was a real run on sterling,"
said Anne Mills of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. Sterling traded today
around 1.5750 dlrs, down from 1.5870 dlrs last night. It slid to 2.917
marks from 2.950 yesterday and from a peak of about 2.98 recently.
"There's been some heavy profit-taking on sterling/mark ahead of next
Tuesday's U.K. budget," said James McGroarty of Discount Corp. As
speculators detected the presence of the U.S. and British central
banks, they acclerated their shift into Canadian and Australian
dollars. But here too they were stymied. The Bank of Canada acted to
slow its currency's rise. The Canadian dollar traded at 1.3218/23 per
U.S. dollar today, down from 1.3185/90 yesterday. And the Australian
Reserve Bank, using the Fed as agent, sold Australian dollars in the
U.S. yesterday, dealers said. The Australian dollar fell to a low of
67.45/55 U.S. cents today from a high of 69.02 Thursday. Analysts said
the central banks' moves to stifle sudden upward movement, leave the
market uncertain about its next step. Today, the focus shifted to the
yen which has held to a very tight range against the dollar for
several months. The dollar fell to 152.35/40 yen from 153.35/40 last
night. Analysts said the yen also gained as traders unwound long
sterling/short mark positions established lately. "Because of the
change in perceptions about the health of the German economy, the
funds from those unwinding operations are ending up in yen," a dealer
at one U.K. bank said. Recent West German data have shown falling
industry orders, lower industrial output and slowing employment gains.
Moreover, the yen is benefitting as Japanese entities who have
invested heavily overseas, for example in Australian financial
instruments, repatriate their profits ahead of the end of the Japanese
fiscal year on March 31. Noting that the dollar/yen rate is in a sense
the most controversial one because of the large U.S. trade deficit
with Japan, analysts said the stage could be set for another test of
the dollar's downward scope against the Japanese currency. In its
latest review of the foreign exchange market through the end of
January, the Federal Reserve revealed that it intervened to protect
the dollar against the yen on January 28. On that day, the dollar fell
as low as 150.40 yen. "Sure, the Fed bought dollars near the 150 yen
level in January. But the market has to bear in mind that time marches
on and the situation changes," said McGroarty of Discount. Reuter 





CHICAGO FUTURES LEADER SAYS MARKETS CAN ADAPT
    BOCA RATON, Fla., March 23 - 
Foreign currency futures markets would not be harmed if the leading
industrial countries agreed to restrict currency movements to within a
narrow band, said Leo Melamed, chairman of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange's, CME, executive committee. "The target zone would not
affect our market I think at all.... A 10 pct range in the Deutsche
mark gives us a healthy market," Melamed told Reuters in an interview.
"We were willing to live in the old Smithsonian era with a four pct
shift," he said, referring to permitted currency fluctuations in the
early 1970s. "One thing you can adjust is to make each contract a
larger value." As chairman of the CME in 1969-71, Melamed was
instrumental in the development of currency futures, which now are
crucial to the Chicago exchange. Melamed said capital flows -- which
he estimated can approach 200 billion dlrs a day -- would overwhelm
efforts by governments to control currency fluctuations. "They can do
it for a day, in terms of intervention, an hour, a week maybe, but not
over a period of time. So it's unrealistic and it doesn't work and
it's unnecessary." The CME's top policymaker also said a decision by
the exchange to advance the quarterly settlement time of its stock
index futures contract to the morning from the afternoon would help
eliminate dramatic price gyrations in futures and equity markets on
so-called "triple-witching" day. "We think that the settlement in the
morning will have a salutary effect so that over a longer period of
time I think this issue (triple witching) will go away because of the
change in the structure as of next June," when the move is scheduled
to go into effect, he said. Melamed said proposed changes in floor
practices by traders of the popular Standard and Poor's 500 stock
index future would address complaints of trading abuses and stimulate
trading. Two weeks ago, the CME board of directors proposed barring
brokers on the top step of the pit from trading for their own account.
The board also proposed requiring brokers engaged in dual trading
elsewhere in the pit to record personal trades to the nearest minute
and curbing trading between broker groups. The changes "will in time
have an extremely positive effect on the marketplace. That's going to
prove very, very instrumental in increasing volume over time," he
said, predicting the increase would come within a year. Melamed, also
chairman of Dellsher Investment Co Inc, said the CME last week
withdrew a proposal to put a 12-point limit on the S and P 500 index's
daily price movement when the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
told the exchange it could not be a temporary program. The CME also
received "many negative comments, many more than we anticipated,"
Melamed conceded. Many futures commission merchants predicted sell
orders would accelerate in the event the price approached the bottom
limit. Reuter 

SWISS SIGHT DEPOSITS RISE 743.7 MLN FRANCS
    ZURICH, March 23 - 
Sight deposits of commercial banks at the Swiss National Bank rose
743.7 mln Swiss francs in the second 10 days of March to 8.40 billion,
the National Bank said. Foreign exchange reserves fell 392.1 mln
francs to 33.55 billion. Sight deposits are a major indicator of money
market liquidity in Switzerland. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 40 MLN STG LATE HELP
    LONDON, April 2 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with around
40 mln stg late assistance. This takes the Bank's total help today to
some 537 mln stg and compares with its estimate of a 700 mln stg
shortage. REUTER 

VOLCKER SEES TIGHT POLICY HURTING INVESTMENT
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said a restrictive
monetary policy would be damaging to investment and that a better
course would be to restrain spending. "A restrictive monetary policy
would hit investment. You don't want to put interest rates up unless
you have to," Volcker told the Senate Banking Committee. "That is not
a constructive way to proceed," he said. Volcker said that given a
choice between squeezing the budget deficit or squeezing investment,
he would favor squeezing the budget deficit. In response to a question
about banks, Volcker said he would be pleased if Congress decided to
give banks a tax writeoff as an incentive for them to take greater
reserves against loans to debtor countries. "If you give a tax
writeoff for reserving against loans, then we will see more reserving
and that would make me happy," Volcker told Committee Chairman Sen
William Proxmire (D-Wisc). Reuter 

BAHRAIN INTRODUCES NEW MONEY MARKET REGIME
    BAHRAIN, March 30 - 
Bahrain is introducing a new domestic money market regime to provide
dinar liquidity aid centred on the island's newly launched treasury
bill programme. The Bahrain Monetary Agency has issued a circular to
all commercial banks outlining a new policy from April 1 which gives
liquidity aid through sale and repurchase agreements in treasury
bills, or through discounting them. The circular, released officially
to Reuters, said current arrangements for providing liquidity aid will
no longer be valid except "in quite exceptional circumstances." Under
the current system, the agency provides the island's 20 commercial
banks with dinar liquidity by means of short-term swaps against U.S.
Dollars and, less frequently, by short-term loans secured against
government development bonds. "The agency considers that it is now
appropriate to replace these operations with short-term assistance
based on Government of Bahrain treasury bills," the circular to banks
states. The agency said it will repurchase treasury bills with a
simultaneous agreement to resell them to the same bank at a higher
price which will reflect an interest charge. The agency said it
envisages the repurchase agreements will normally be for a period of
seven days. Bahrain launched a weekly tender for two mln dinars of
91-day treasury bills in mid-December last year and has since raised a
total of 26 mln dinars through the programme. Bahrain's commercial
banks are currently liquid and have been making little use of the
traditional dollar swaps offered by the agency. But banking sources
said the new regime from April 1 will mean banks cannot afford not to
hold treasury bills in case they need funds from the central bank.
Banking sources said more than half of the 20 banks hold treasury
bills, although the need by others to take up paper could increase
demand at weekly tenders and push down allotted yields slightly. Last
week's yield was six pct, although the programme had started at the
end of last year with rates as low as 5.60 pct. Banking sources said
the cost of liquidity through repurchase accords will not differ much
from that on dollar swaps. But a bank using dollars to obtain
liquidity would foresake interest on the U.S. Currency while the
underlying treasury bill investment is unaffected in a repurchase
accord. REUTER 

BANK OF ZAMBIA PAYS OUT FOREIGN CURRENCY ARREARS
    LUSAKA, March 9 - 
The Bank of Zambia has paid out foreign exchange arrears from three
auctions conducted last year, a bank spokesman said. "We have now
cleared three auctions and are left with only four, worth eight mln
dlrs," the spokesman said without specifying the amount paid out. The
bank had not paid foreign exchange to private firms since it suspended
the weekly auctions on January 28. It has said the auctions were
suspended because it planned to introduce a modified system after
talks with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
President Kenneth Kaunda announced last month that the auction would
be retained for allocating foreign exchange to approved private sector
bidders, but would not be used to determine the kwacha's exchange
rate. Last week, he said the auction had run into trouble because of a
shortage of foreign exchange. The government has fixed the exchange
rate at nine kwacha per dollar, effectively revaluing the kwacha by
67.7 pct. REUTER 

CHINA POSTPONES PLAN TO SCRAP PARALLEL CURRENCY
    PEKING, March 28 - 
Chinese Vice-Premier Tian Jiyun said plans to scrap the country's
parallel currency, Foreign Exchange Certificates (FECs), had been
postponed due to objections from foreign businessmen and others. But
Tian told a news conference the Chinese government still considered
FECs unsatisfactory. Asked about the current state of plans to abolish
the FECs, Tian said: "We have decided to postpone the question. As to
whether it will be done in the future, it will be done according to
the evolution of the situation." He said many people, including
foreign businessmen, had raised objections to the plan to abolish the
certificates, and added: "It is rather complicated." The FECs were
introduced in 1980 for use by foreigners in China. But they now
circulate widely among local residents and there is a big black market
in the currency, though it is theoretically at par with the ordinary
Chinese currency, renminbi. Tian said the government still considered
that the FECs had "many demerits and negative influences." Bank of
China President Wang Deyan told Reuters earlier this month that he
thought it unlikely that the certificates would be scrapped this year.
Western diplomats and economists have said the Chinese authorities are
having trouble finding a suitable alternative. Vice-Premier Yao Yilin
announced at a similar press conference last year that the FECs would
be abolished, saying the government had decided it was ideologically
unacceptable to have two currencies circulating in China at the same
time. REUTER 

AUSTRIA DOES NOT INTERVENE TO SUPPORT DOLLAR
    VIENNA, March 27 - 
The Austrian National Bank did not intervene on the foreign exchange
markets today to support the dollar, deputy banking department chief
Herbert Danzinger told Reuters. He denied a suggestion by a dealer at
one Vienna bank that the National Bank had sold marks to support the
U.S. Currency. Senior dealers at Creditanstalt and Girozentrale,
Austria's two largest banks, said they would have been aware of any
National Bank intervention. Any dollar purchases by the Bank today
were for purely day-to-day purposes, they said. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 129 MLN STG ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 30 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with
assistance worth 129 mln stg in the afternoon session. This compares
with the Bank's forecast of a shortage in the system today of around
100 mln stg. The central bank purchased 129 mln stg bank bills in band
one at 9-7/8 pct. REUTER 

EXCHANGE RATE BILL CLEARS U.S. HOUSE PANEL
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
The House Banking Committee adopted legislation to direct the U.S.
Treasury to begin negotiations aimed at seeking regular adjustment of
exchange rates by countries such as Taiwan and South Korea whose
currencies are pegged to the value of the U.S. dollar. The measure was
adopted as part of a wide-ranging trade bill that will be considered
by the full House in April before it moves onto the Senate. The bill's
many provisions also set as a priority for the U.S. the negotiation of
stable exchange rates and urge government intervention as necessary to
offset fluctuations. Reuter 

BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS
    TOKYO, April 7 - 
The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow a total of 800 billion yen worth
of financing bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money
market surplus of 1,300 billion yen, money traders said. Of the total,
400 billion yen will yield 3.8502 pct on sales from money houses to
banks and securities houses in a 41-day repurchase accord maturing on
May 19. Another 400 billion yen will yield 3.7991 pct in a 20-day
repurchase pact maturing on April 28, they said. The repurchase
agreement yields compare with the 3.8125 pct one-month, and 3.7500 pct
three-week commercial bill discount rates today. Tomorrow's surplus is
attributable to government tax allocations to local governments and
public entities. The operation will put outstanding bill supply at
about 4,300 billion yen, they said. REUTER 

BANK OF ENGLAND OFFERS EARLY HELP TO MONEY MARKET
    LONDON, March 13 - 
The Bank of England said it invited an early round of bill offers to
help ease tight conditions in the money market. The bank estimated
today's liquidity shortage at about 1.10 billion stg. Bills maturing
in official hands and the treasury bill take-up would drain 1.21
billion stg from the system while a rise in the note circulation and
below target bankers' balances would take out 265 mln and 180 mln
respectively, the bank said. Against this, exchequer transactions
would add a net 535 mln stg. REUTER 

ITALIAN PANEL URGES EXCHANGE LIBERALIZATION
    ROME, March 19 - 
Liberalization of Italy's foreign exchange controls should be
"gradual" but also "reasonably rapid," a report issued by a study
committee nominated by the Italian Treasury Ministry said. The report,
looking at the country's financial development prospects, said Italy's
large public sector deficit and growing public debt were among the
considerations that made a gradual liberalization preferable. The
report also favoured retention of the lira's six pct oscillation band
with the European Monetary System (EMS) during the liberalization
process in order to lessen short-term domestic interest rate
fluctuations which could result from portfolio adjustments. The lira's
fluctuation margin is currently significantly higher than that allowed
for other EMS currencies. Italy has over recent months announced a
series of deregulation moves in response to a European Community
directive aimed at creating a genuine common market in goods, services
and finance by 1992. Reuter 

TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS PACT
    WASHINGTON, March 26 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said he stood by the Paris agreement
among leading industrial nations to foster exchange rate stability
around current levels. "I would refer you to the Paris agreement which
was a recognition the currencies were within ranges broadly consistent
with economic fundamentals," Baker told The Cable News Network in an
interview. "We were quite satisfied with the agreement in Paris
otherwise we would not have been a party too it," he said. Baker also
noted the nations agreed in the accord to "co-operate to foster
greater exchange rate stability around those levels." He refused to
comment directly on the current yen/dollar rate but said flatly that
foreign exchange markets recently tended "to draw unwarranted
inferences from what I say." Baker was quoted on British Television
over the weekend as saying he has no target for the U.S. currency, a
statement that triggered this week's renewed decline of the dollar. "I
think the Paris agreement represents evidence that international
economic policy co-ordination is alive and well," Baker said. The
Treasury Secretary stressed however it was very important for the main
surplus countries to grow as fast as they could consistent with low
inflation to resolve trade imbalances. He added that Federal Reserve
Board chairman Paul Volcker has also "been very outspoken" in
suggesting main trading partners grow as fast as they can. Reuter 

CURRENCY EXCHANGE LOSS PUSHES MALAYSIA'S DEBT UP
    KUALA LUMPUR, March 26 - 
An exchange loss of 7.6 billion ringgit in 1986 pushed Malaysia's
outstanding external debt up to 50.99 billion ringgit, from 1985's
42.3 billion, the Central Bank said in its annual report. Bank Negara
said although Malaysia's net borrowing dropped in 1986, its external
debt rose due to the 30 pct appreciation of the basket of currencies
against which the ringgit is pegged. The basket comprises principally
the U.S. Dollar, yen, mark, Swiss franc, French franc, sterling,
guilder, Canadian and Singapore dollars, it added. Bank Negara said
growth in external debt, which declined progressively from a peak of
58 pct in 1982 to 13.6 pct in 1985, rose by 20.2 pct in 1986.
Malaysia's debt serving ratio of 17.6 pct of its exports in 1986 is
within the prudency limit of 20 pct, Bank Negara Governor Jaafar
Hussein told reporters. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 191 MLN STG HELP
    LONDON, March 19 - 
The Bank of England said it gave the money market a further 191 mln
stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Bank's total
help so far today to 372 mln stg and compares with its upwards revised
estimate of the shortage in the system of around 400 mln stg. The
central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 15 mln stg in band
one at 9-7/8 pct and 176 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 

FED SAYS IT SETS 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS




STOLTENBERG SAYS PARIS ACCORD POLICY TO CONTINUE
    BONN, April 3 - 
West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said the currency
agreement reached in Paris in February had been successful and would
be continued. Stoltenberg told journalists before he attends next
week's International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington that: "The
... Strategy to stabilise currencies around current levels has proven
its worth and will also determine future developments." Stoltenberg
declined to comment specifically on what he would consider to be an
undervalued dollar but said a dollar around 1.80 marks created
problems for West Germany's exports. He said studies by international
organisations had made it clear that especially in the U.S. And in
Japan major efforts remained necessary to support adjustments in
foreign trade balances via necessary corrections to economic policy.
"No-one would benefit if, after years of over-valuation, the U.S.
Dollar fell into the other extreme, that is, strong under-valuation,"
he said. Stoltenberg said West Germany had a keen interest in a swift
agreement between the U.S. And Japan concerning the current trade
dispute over semi-conductors. Asked whether he believed the markets
would test the Paris currency accord, Stoltenberg did not comment
specifically but noted that much of what had been discussed in Paris
had not been published. The Paris declaration did not state the levels
at which central banks of the major industrialised countries would
intervene. Stoltenberg said that everything had been carefully
considered. He said he had nothing further to add. Reuter 

BANK OF FINLAND TO TRADE IN BANKS' CERTIFICATES
    HELSINKI, March 20 - 
The Bank of Finland said it has started dealings in banks'
certificates of deposits (CDs) with immediate effect and that it was
prepared to issue its own paper to stimulate operations on the
domestic money market. Bank of Finland Governor Rolf Kullberg told a
news conference the Bank will also limit credits on the call money
market from March 30, 1987, by introducing a maximum credit amount and
a penalty rate if banks exceed this ceiling. "The recent introduction
of three-month money and these new regulations are decreasing the role
of the call money market and the discount rate as monetary
instruments," Kullberg said. Bankers welcomed the central bank
measures saying these were needed to accelerate the domestic money
market. The Bank of Finland had never before been allowed to issue its
own CDs, they said. "The central bank for the first time has an
instrument with which it really can influence the price of money in
this country," one banker said. Under the new rules banks are limited
to call money credits to a maximum of 7.5 pct of the total of their
equity capital and cash reserves. A penalty rate of interest of 19 pct
is now introduced if the limit is exceeded. Director Sixten Korkman at
the Bank of Finland's monetary department said he expected the bank to
pursue an active policy on the interbank market as an issuer of own-
CDs. "We are free to do it, so maybe on Monday we will issue the
first, just to see how the system functions. Overall I think we will
issue at least a few times a week," Korkman told Reuters. He said the
bank was likely to aim at CDs with a three-month maturity at first as
the market was best developed for paper of that maturity. The Bank of
Finland introduced last December three-month credits and deposits at
rates determined by the central bank and the commercial banks as a
shift away from the traditional overnight call money market. Liquidity
on the call credit market has fallen from around nine billion markka
in early December to 167 mln last week, while three-month credits have
risen to three to four billion. On the interbank market there has been
an increasing trade in banks' CDs, estimated to be some eight billion
markka. In addition, commercial paper accounts for around five billion
markka and Treasury Bills two billion. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 10 MLN STG LATE ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 24 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with late help
of about 10 mln stg. This takes the bank's total help today to some
229 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 300 mln stg shortage.
REUTER 

TAIWAN SAYS U.S. WANTS TAIWAN DOLLAR TO APPRECIATE
    TAIPEI, March 16 - 
The United States wants Taiwan's currency to appreciate faster to
reduce Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S., A senior trade official
said. Board of Foreign Trade director Vincent Siew told reporters on
Saturday U.S. Officials told him in Washington last week that unless
Taiwan allowed its dollar to rise faster it would face retaliation.
Siew returned from Washington on Friday after the U.S responded to
Taiwan's request to increase its textile export quotas by promising
further talks in May. Taiwan's surplus with the U.S. Hit a record 13.6
billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986. Washington signed a three-year accord with
Taipei last year limiting textile export growth to 0.5 pct a year.
Siew said the Taiwan dollar had risen by about 15 pct against the U.S.
Dollar since September 1985. It surged last week amid indications
Washington was seeking a major rise in its value. It rose four cents
against the U.S. Dollar on Saturday to close at 34.59. Western trade
sources told Reuters Taiwan and the U.S. Have been holding talks on
the currency issue but added it is not clear how far Washington wants
to see the Taiwan dollar rise. REUTER 

EC AGREES ON NEED TO STRENGTHEN EMS
    KNOKKE-HEIST, Belgium, April 5 - 
European Community (EC) finance ministers and central bankers agreed
on the need for greater cooperation to strengthen the European
Monetary System (EMS) against international market turbulence,
officials said. "There was a general will to reinforce the European
Monetary System, with all that implies," Belgian Finance Minister Mark
Eyskens said yesterday after hosting a one-day session of informal
talks at this Belgian coastal resort. The gathering was the first such
discussion since the second major realignment of EMS parities within
nine months in January. The system has come under severe strain as
funds have flowed out of the slumping dollar and into the dominant EMS
currency, the West German mark, sending it soaring against weaker
currencies in the system. But Eyskens said February's agreement
between leading western industrialised nations to stabilise exchange
rates at around current levels was working and this would allow the EC
to speed up its efforts to boost the internal stability of the EMS. He
told a news conference yesterday's meeting agreed on the need for
closer coordination among EMS member governments of interest rate
policies and of interest rate differentials between different
countries. They also agreed they needed better coordination of
exchange market intervention to hold currencies stable, both when they
reached their fixed EMS limits and within their agreed margins. But
Eyskens said this coordination raised a whole range of technical
problems and ministers would discuss these further in Luxembourg in
June on the basis of proposals from the EC's Monetary Committee and
Committee of Central Bank Governors. He said the EC needed a set of
indicators of economic convergence betwen Community countries and it
was important that interest rates fulfilled this role together with
exchange rates and inflation rates. The Belgian minister, whose
country presently holds the presidency of the community, made clear
the meeting had not produced any agreement to move radically forward
in developing the EMS towards the EC's long term goal of economic and
monetary integration. "We have committed ourselves to reestablishing
the normal functioning of the system," Eyskens said. Eyskens has
repeatedly stressed that he believes the EMS has to be reinforced if
the EC's plans to liberalise all movements of capital across national
borders by 1992 are to go ahead. EC executive Commission President
Jacques Delors told the meeting the authority would put forward
proposals for a final phase of capital market liberalisation in
October that would include safeguard clauses for member countries for
which the move would create difficulties. Eyskens said the ministers
and central bankers also discussed the need to "dedramatise"
realignments of EMS parities by letting high-ranking monetary
officials carry them out by telephone rather than calling a meeting of
finance ministers. However, West German sources said Bonn Finance
Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg was unenthusiastic about the idea.
British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson told journalists that
one of the technical issues raised by greater coordination of exchange
market intervention was the question of which currencies should be
used to intervene and held in central bank reserves. He said several
EMS member countries believed the EMS would work better if central
banks held each other's currencies -- an issue of particular
importance regarding West Germany since the Bundesbank holds only
dollars in its foreign exchange reserves. He said the debate on
dedramatising EMS realignments reflected a general feeling among
participants that the way the January reshuffle had been conducted was
unsatisfactory. The realignment was marked by acrimony between France
and West Germany, with each side blaming the other for strains in the
system that forced the parity overhaul. REUTER 





BUNDESBANK BOUGHT DOLLARS AGAINST YEN, DEALERS SAY
    FRANKFURT, March 27 - 
The Bundesbank entered the open market in the late morning to buy
dollars against yen in concert with the Bank of France, dealers said.
The Bundesbank came into the market when the dollar was around 148.10
yen just after it had fallen below 148 to touch 147.80 at 1027 GMT.
The move had little effect, with the dollar still testing 148 yen
ahead of the official fixing. Dealers said the intervention was for
fairly small amounts, in contrast to the Bundesbank's activity on
Wednesday when dealers reported it bought about 100 mln dlrs. The
Bundesbank had no comment. REUTER 

UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 570 MLN STG HELP
    LONDON, March 31 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the market with a further 570 mln
stg assistance during the morning after revising its estimate of the
liquidity shortage to 1.85 billion stg, before taking account of its
early round of bill purchases. Initially, the Bank put the likely
shortage at some 1.75 billion and to help offset this gave early
assistance of 1.143 billion. Its total help so far today amounts to
1.713 billion stg. MORE 

FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES
    NEW YORK, April 7 - 
The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to
arrange two-day repurchase agreements for system account, a
spokeswoman for the New York Fed said. Fed funds were trading at 6-1/8
pct at the time of the direct injection of temporary reserves, dealers
said. Most economists had expected a less aggressive injection of
reserves via customer repurchase agreements. Reuter 

TREASURY SECRETARY BAKER DECLINES COMMENT ON G-6
    NEW YORK, March 12 - 
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker declined comment on the February
22 Paris accord between the six major industrial nations under which
they agreed to foster exchange rate stability. Asked by reporters
after a speech before the National Fitness Foundation banquet what, if
any, currency intervention levels had been set in Paris, Baker
replied: "We never talk about intervention." Baker also declined to
comment on his views about the foreign exchange markets' reaction to
the accord. Reuter 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 120 MLN STG LATE HELP
    LONDON, March 17 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with late
assistance of around 120 mln stg. This brings the bank's total help
today to some 136 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 400 mln
stg shortage in the system. REUTER 

BANK OF FRANCE LAUNCHES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION TENDER - OFFICIAL




FORMER TREASURY OFFICIAL URGES CURRENCY REFORMS
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
Former Treasury official C. Fred Bergsten said a new exchange rate
system is needed to replace the fixed and flexible exchange rate
systems which he said had not worked. "I prefer a move to 'target
zones' in which the major countries would determine ranges of 15-20
pct within which they would pledge to hold their exchange rates by
direct intervention and, as necessary, by changes in monetary and
other policies," Bergsten, now the director of the Institute for
International Economics, said in a statement to a House Banking
subcommittee. "The substantial correction of the exchange rate that
has occurred since early 1985 is enormously welcome, and should
produce a sizeable reduction in the U.S. trade deficit this year and
next, but the imbalance will not fall much below 100 billion dlrs on
present policies, so much more is needed," he said. Reuter 

TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS U.S. REMAINS PREPARED TO FOSTER EXCHANGE RATE STABILITY




U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 800 MLN STG
    LONDON, April 2 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 800 mln stg
in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity,
bills for repurchase by the market will drain some 664 mln stg while
bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills
will take out around 508 mln stg and a rise in note circulation some
45 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions
and bankers' balances above target will add some 380 mln stg and 35
mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 

MIYAZAWA SAYS MAJOR NATIONS ACTING ON PARIS ACCORD
    TOKYO, March 26 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said major nations are taking action
to stabilise exchange rates in line with their agreement in Paris last
month, government sources said. Miyazawa told an Upper House session
the six nations -- Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West
Germany -- are abiding by the Paris accord. The six agreed to
cooperate to stabilise exchange rates at around current levels.
Miyazawa said he wishes to attend a meeting of seven major nations
(G-7) expected just before the IMF/World Bank Interim Committee
meeting in Washington starting on April 9. The sources quoted Miyazawa
as saying Japan is trying to prevent a further rise of the yen. Japan
is taking the matter seriously, he added. Asked if the six nations had
agreed to stabilise the dollar at about 153 yen, the rate prevailing
at the time of the Paris talks, Miyazawa declined to give specific
figures and said any mention of specific rates would create an
"unexpected situation." REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 300 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 24 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 300 mln stg
in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity,
bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills
will drain some 338 mln stg while bankers' balances below target will
take out around 25 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, a fall
in note circulation and exchequer transactions will add some 45 mln
stg and 25 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 

LIFFE FEBRUARY VOLUMES DOWN, BUT EURODOLLARS UP
    LONDON, March 6 - 
Total futures and options turnover on the London International
Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) fell slightly during February,
although daily average Eurodollar volume set a new record, LIFFE said
today. Total futures and options turnover last month was 822,378
contracts, down from January's 881,778, but sharply above the
comparative February 1986 figure of 463,146 lots, it said. Eurodollar
turnover during February was 140,417 lots, against January's 100,941
and the year ago figure of 81,648. The daily average was a record
7,020 lots, up four pct from the previous record, set in March 1985.
February trading encompassed a new daily record of 66,087 contracts on
the 19th of the month, exceeding the previous record of 61,398, which
had been set on February 6, LIFFE said. FT-SE 100 index futures volume
was sharply higher during February, with 22,109 contracts trading,
against January's 15,279 and the year-ago level of 8,181. Open
interest also set new records last month in Eurodollars at 29,372
contracts, in FT-SE 100 at 4,898 and in short sterling interest rate
futures at 19,846 lots. Key futures volumes as detailed by LIFFE were:
Feb'87 Jan'87 Feb'86 Long gilt 424,865 525,354 134,420 Eurodollar
140,417 100,941 81,648 Short sterling 94,720 87,619 67,640 T-bond
84,694 87,980 133,766 FT-SE 22,109 15,279 8,181 Currencies 2,799 2,112
7,737 Short gilt 74 85 6,516 Key options volumes as detailed by LIFFE
were: Feb'87 Jan'87 Feb'86 Long gilt 44,640 54,329 ---- Eurodollar
3,580 1,720 2,844 T-bond 1,737 3,479 ---- Sterling 1,466 2,223 18,191
FT-SE 1,277 657 ---- Total options 52,700 62,408 23,238 (Long gilt,
T-bond and FT-SE index options were not trading in February 1986).
Reuter 

 Bundesbank sets 28-day securities repurchase tender at fixed 3.80 pct




PHILADELPHIA EXCHANGE TO EXTEND HOURS FOR ASIA
    SYDNEY, March 30 - 
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX), a leading trader of currency
options, plans to extend its trading hours to serve Australasian and
Far Eastern markets, exchange president Nicholas Giordano said. He
told reporters the PHLX will open a new session between 1900 and 2300
hours U.S. EST from the beginning of the third quarter this year. The
PHLX is also opening an office in Hong Kong to serve clients in the
region and educate financial markets about the advantages of currency
options, Giordano said. Giordano was in Sydney to start an Asian-
Pacific tour by exchange executives promoting the hedging benefits of
the exchange-trade currency option market against existing over-the-
counter option trading during the local working day. Currency options
pioneered by the PHLX in 1982 had become an accepted means of hedging
against foreign exchange risk and had grown in popularity, he said.
The PHLX now offered options in eight currencies, including a new
Australian dollar option, and traded an average 42,000 contracts daily
with underlying open interest of more than 30 billion U.S. Dlrs.
Giordano said the exchange had been impressed with the performance of
its Australian dollar contract, which since its introduction last year
had regularly topped the French franc as the third most popular traded
option, with up to 8,000 contracts traded daily. Having the
Philadelphia exchange open during the Asia-Pacific market day would
open new hedging opportunities, set a truer level for over-the-counter
option trading, increase arbitraging opportunities and give
corporations and treasuries access to a currency option market of much
greater depth and liquidity with the security of a clearing house, he
said. REUTER 

TREASURY BALANCES AT FED FELL ON MARCH 27
    WASHINGTON, March 30 - 
Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve fell on March 27 to 2.424
billion dlrs from 2.508 billion dlrs on the previous business day, the
Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan
note accounts fell to 9.706 billion dlrs from 10.786 billion dlrs on
the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance
totaled 12.131 billion dlrs on March 27 compared with 13.283 billion
dlrs on March 26. Reuter 

Sumita says major nations cooperated to stabilise currencies.




ARAB BANKER SAYS TOO SOON FOR SINGLE CURRENCY
    ABU DHABI, March 29 - 
Gulf Arab states must coordinate economic policies more closely before
moving towards their goal of a unified currency system, the President
of the Arab Bankers Association said. Hikmat Nashashibi told a news
conference at the end of an Arab currency traders meeting: "We have to
start with coordination of fiscal policies as a prerequisite for a
common system of currencies ... There is quite a substantial way to go
yet." He said only then would a unified Gulf currency system be a
plausible project. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council --
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates -- have held a series of meetings this year to examine
linking their currencies to a single peg in a system which bankers say
could be modelled on the European Monetary System (EMS). At present,
five currencies are linked either officially or in practice to the
U.S. Dollar, while the Kuwaiti dinar is pegged to a trade-weighted
basket of currencies. A common currency system or EMS-style "grid"
would, in theory, foster regional trade by providing a basis for
stable exchange rates, but Nashashibi said inter-Arab trade is at a
very low ebb and capital flows between Gulf states remain small.
"Capital markets in the Arab world are still in their infancy," he
said. Nashashibi said lack of experience among Arab banks, a paucity
of financial instruments and a legal framework that often does not
recognise the western banking concept of interest have hampered the
growth of Arab markets. REUTER 

FED WILL BUY BILLS FOR CUSTOMER AFTER AUCTION
    NEW YORK, March 30 - 
The Federal Reserve said it will enter the U.S. Government securities
market after the 1300 EST weekly bill auction to purchase around 900
mln dlrs of Treasury bills for customers, a spokesman said. He said
the Fed will purchase bills with maturities from May through September
10. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed
announced the operation. Reuter 

MIYAZAWA SAYS U.S. LIKELY TO INTERVENE
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told Parliament's Lower House Finance
Committee that the U.S. Is expected to intervene in the foreign
exchange market to stabilise exchange rates, political sources said.
Asked if the U.S. Federal Reserve Board agreed in Paris last month to
intervene to stabilise exchange rates, Miyazawa said yes, the sources
said. Miyazawa was also quoted as saying that he is sceptical about
the effectiveness of currency reference ranges even if major nations
agree on such an idea as it is extremely difficult to set such ranges.
REUTER 

FED SAYS IT SETS TWO BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS




AUSTRALIAN RESERVE BANK IN BUYING INTERVENTION
    SYDNEY, March 10 - 
The Reserve Bank said at 1230 local time it was offering to buy short-
dated government securities in the short-term money market. The bank's
action followed its purchase of short-dated government stock and six-
day repurchase agreements earlier in the session. Money market traders
said the move was aimed at easing cash market interest rates which had
risen on demand for funds to meet PAYE tax and treasury note
settlement commitments. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED UPWARD
    LONDON, April 3 - 
The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's
shortfall to 750 mln stg from 700 mln. REUTER 

U.S. TREASURY POLICIES SAID UNCHANGED BY DEPARTURE
    WASHINGTON, April 2 - 
The departure of James Baker's closest aide, Deputy Treasury Secretary
Richard Darman, will not change the course of Washington's domestic
and international economic policies, U.S. officials said. Darman, who
has worked alongside Baker for six years, was widely credited with
helping him mastermind initiatives on currency management and
international economic cooperation. U.S. Officials said Darman also
played a key role in shepherding President Reagan's sweeping tax
reform plan through the U.S. Congress. But they flatly dismissed
suggestions that his departure, to the investment banking firm of
Shearson Lehman Brothers, signaled the Baker team was breaking up, or
that the Treasury Secretary himself might leave soon. "It really does
not mean that, he took the opportunity as it came up," one official
said. Another commented, "Baker will miss him, but he's not going to
stand in his way." There has been widespread speculation since last
autumn that Darman sought a Wall Street job. Officials said Darman
felt the passage of tax reform late last year marked an appropriate
moment to bow out. Baker acknowledged Darman would be sorely missed.
"Dick Darman has contributed mightily to the success of this
administration over the past six years and his departure represents a
substantial loss," he said. U.S. Officials admitted Darman's absence
would be an undoubted blow to Baker, who has relied on him for policy
advice, both at the White House and, in Reagan's second term, at the
Treasury. One aide once described Darman as "indispensable" to Baker.
Baker is widely thought to want a more stable currency system and
Darman is generally credited by officials of other nations as Baker's
leading theorist on this issue, favouring target zones to limit
currency fluctuations. Earlier this year, monetary sources said the
U.S. Treasury unsuccessfully sounded out allies on a target zone
system. But a U.S. Official disputed the assessment that, with Darman
gone, Baker would abandon international initiatives. Baker's work as
head of Reagan's Economic Policy Council, spearheading trade policy,
and his skills in negotiating with the Democrat-controlled Congress
will go on as before. Darman's strength was not as an economist, but
as a political strategist "and that's Baker's strength too," the
official said. There were already indications that Baker, who
throughout his time in government has relied on a closely-knit circle
of advisers, has moved swiftly to find a successor. One possibility is
that Baker might turn to George Gould, who holds the number three
Treasury position of Under-Secretary. Gould, another close confidante,
has known Baker for years. Before joining the Treasury in November
1985, Gould was a partner at the Wall Steet firm of Wertheim and Co
and formerly headed Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp.
The Darman announcement came on the eve of the semi-annual meetings of
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, where many
policies Darman helped shape will be debated. He helped Baker devise
the September, 1985 Plaza Agreement, when the United States, Japan,
West Germany, France and Britain curbed the dollar's strength. The
pact was a major turning point in U.S. Policy, ending a period of
disdain for economic cooperation and intervention in currency markets.
Darman also worked on some other Baker initiatives, like the Tokyo
Summit agreement to intensify coordination of economic policies among
the leading industrial countries and the recent Paris Agreement to
stabilise currencies and stimulate global growth. These policies are
collectively aimed at redressing the huge gap between Japan and West
Germany's trade surpluses and the United State's massive trade
deficit. That policy goal still remains a prime objective of the
Reagan Administration and will not change with Darman's departure.
REUTER 

SWISS SIGHT DEPOSITS FALL 2.88 BILLION FRANCS
    ZURICH, March 11 - 
Sight deposits of commercial banks at the Swiss National Bank fell
2.88 billion Swiss francs in the first 10 days of March to 7.65
billion, the National Bank said. Foreign exchange reserves rose 3.30
billion francs to 33.94 billion. Sight deposits are a major indicator
of money market liquidity in Switzerland. The National Bank said banks
paid back 5.5 billion francs of central bank credit taken out at the
end of February for the end-month liquidity requirement. This drain
was offset in part by new currency swaps, which had the effect of
increasing the National Bank's foreign exchange holdings. Bank notes
in circulation fell 309.1 mln francs to 24.49 billion, and other
deposits on call -- basically government funds -- rose 1.06 billion to
2.10 billion. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP WORTH 15 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 9 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the market with unspecified late
assistance worth 15 mln stg. It has given the market total assistance
of 228 mln stg today compared with a liquidity shortage it estimated
at a revised 300 mln stg. REUTER 

JAPAN CONDUCTS CURRENCY SURVEY OF BIG INVESTORS
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
A Finance Ministry official said the ministry has recently conducted a
survey on foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors but
declined to say if it was aimed at moderating their dollar sales.
However, financial market sources said they had heard the ministry has
asked life insurance and securities firms to refrain from selling
dollars, but they were unable to confirm this directly. Dealers said
life insurance firms were not major sellers of dollars in recent
trading sessions because they had already sold them to hedge risks.
Dealers said securities houses and trust banks on the other hand have
aggressively sold the dollar. REUTER 

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - EMS MARKS EIGHTH BIRTHDAY
    BRUSSELS, March 13 - 
The European Monetary System marks its eighth anniversary still
vulnerable to turmoil in world money markets despite creating an
island of currency rate stability in Europe, economists say. But many
economists say the system, which holds eight European Community
currencies within narrow fluctuation bands, remains in its infancy.
Its new currency, the European Currency Unit (Ecu), has been a runaway
success with investors and borrowers alike seeking an alternative to
the volatile dollar. And on Wednesday, the long term vision of the Ecu
as Europe's common currency took a step nearer to becoming reality
when Belgium minted the world's first Ecu coin. But economists say
members such as West Germany have so far blocked a second stage of
development envisaged by the system's founding fathers, ex-West German
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and former French President Valery Giscard
d'Estaing. Under this phase, originally due to have started two years
after the EMS was set up, decision-making was to have been transferred
from national governments and central banks to an autonomous European
Monetary Fund. But members have jealously guarded their sovereignty in
economic and monetary matters. "The basic problem of the EMS is that
governments are not prepared to make the quantum leap to a situation
where certain decisions are taken in common," said one economist who
has closely watched the system's development. The result is that the
EC is often divided over policy on third currencies, accentuating what
the economists say is the system's greatest weakness, its
vulnerability to a weak dollar. Over the past 18 months, as the U.S.
Dollar plunged and investors moved into strong currencies, the
resulting sharp rise of the West German mark severely strained the
system. Another frustration has been Britain's failure to lend the EMS
political support by keeping the pound, still a major world currency,
outside the system. No change in the British government's attitude is
expected before the country's next general elections, due by mid-1988.
Meanwhile, the system's last realignment, the 11th since it was set
up, prompted European finance ministers to ask the EC's highly-
secretive Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governors
to come up with suggestions for reinforcing it. Their ideas are due to
be unveiled when finance ministers hold an informal meeting in Belgium
early next month. But economists said the proposals are unlikely to
involve more than tinkering with technical details. They are sceptical
about the chances for any fundamental change. "Technical measures
won't be enough to protect the EMS against external factors such as
dollar weakness. For that we must take the step forward to the
institutional level," said Leo de Corel of Kredietbank's economic
research department. Economists say the system's fortunes now will
depend largely on the success of an agreement last month among major
industrial nations to stabilise exchange rates. If the dollar resumes
its slide the EMS could be in for more turbulence, they predict.
REUTER 

FED BUYS ONE BILLION DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER
    NEW YORK, April 1 - 
The Federal Reserve is buying one billion dlrs of Treasury bills for
customer account for delivery today, a spokesman for the bank said.
Fed funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct at the time of the purchase,
which came several hours before the Fed normally transacts business
for its customers. Economists said the purchase was almost certainly
related to the investment of proceeds from recent central bank
intervention in the foreign exchanges. The Bank of Japan alone is
estimated to have bought about six billion dlrs in March in a bid to
prop up the dollar. Reuter 

EXCHANGE RATES ALMOST WITHIN G-6 LEVELS - SUMITA
    TOKYO, March 25 - 
Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said that current exchange rates
are almost within the levels agreed to by six major nations last month
in Paris. Asked whether a dollar/yen rate of 148 or 149 reflected
economic fundamentals, he said current rates almost reflect
fundamentals. Sumita told reporters major nations have cooperated to
bring about currency stability in line with the Paris agreement, which
stipulated that they would closely cooperate to that end. He repeated
the central bank will intervene if necessary, adding he did not think
a dollar free-fall was likely. But Sumita said he could not say
exactly what currency levels would be considered in line with
underlying economic fundamentals. In Paris on February 22, Britain,
Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate
to hold currencies around their then current levels. Sumita said he
could not find any specific reasons behind the fall of the dollar to a
record low against the yen yesterday. But he said the market rushed to
sell dollars as it nervously reacted to statements abroad and to
developments surrounding trade tensions. U.S. Treasury Secretary James
Baker said over the weekend that the Paris pact did not encompass
fixed tragets for the dollar. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton
Yeutter called U.S/Japan relations on certain key trade issues very
strained. The market reacted nervously because the dollar has been
moving narrowly against the yen since mid-January, Sumita said. He
added he does not expect the yen/dollar exchange rate to remain
unstable because the market is concerned about a sharp rise of the
yen. The Bank of Japan will keep a close watch on exchange rates in
line with the Paris accord, he added. REUTER 

ASIAN DOLLAR ASSETS EXCEED 200 BILLION DLRS
    SINGAPORE, March 9 - 
The Asian dollar market continued to expand in December with total
assets and liabilities rising to 200.60 billion U.S. Dlrs from 188.54
billion in November and 155.37 billion in December 1985, the Monetary
Authority of Singapore said. It said the increase came mainly from
interbank activity, with interbank lending rising to 146.61 billion
dlrs in December from 134.76 billion in November and 104.93 billion in
December 1985. Interbank deposits increased to 158.52 billion dlrs
against 147.95 billion and 120.03 billion, respectively. Loans to non-
bank customers increased in December to 38.74 billion dlrs from 38.64
billion in November and 37.44 billion in December 1985. Deposits by
non-bank customers rose to 33.81 billion dlrs against 33.60 billion
and 28.02 billion. REUTER 

MIYAZAWA SEES BIG NATIONS REAFFIRMING PARIS PACT
    TOKYO, April 6 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a parliamentary committee he
expects major nations to reafffirm the currency pact they struck in
Paris when they meet this week in Washington, political sources said.
The Minister also was quoted as saying he expects major nations to
take coordinated action to ensure exchange rate stability. Finance
Ministry officials were unavailable for immediate comment. In Paris on
February 22, six nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S.
And West Germany - pledged to cooperate to hold their currencies
stable. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 689 MLN STG EARLY HELP
    LONDON, April 1 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with early
assistance of 689 mln stg in response to an early round of bill offers
from the discount houses. This compares with the Bank's estimate that
the system would face a shortage of around 1.2 billion stg today. The
central bank made outright purchases of bank bills comprising 347 mln
stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 207 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct
and 135 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 550 MLN STG LATE HELP
    LONDON, March 16 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with late
assistance of around 550 mln stg. This takes the Bank's total help
today to some 1.12 billion stg and compares with its estimated deficit
of around 1.10 billion. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 106 MLN STG ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 11 - 
The Bank of England said it gave the money market assistance worth 106
mln stg this afternoon, buying bank bills at the rates established on
Monday. The Bank bought 11 mln stg of band one bills at 10-3/8 pct and
95 mln stg of band two paper at 10-5/16 pct. This is the first time
that it has intervened today. The Bank has revised its estimate of the
liquidity shortage in the market down to 250 mln stg from 300 mln
initially. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, April 1 - 
The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers
from the discount houses after forecasting a shortage of around 1.2
billion stg in the money market today. Among the main factors
affecting liquidity, bills for repurchase by the market will drain
some 526 mln stg while bills maturing in official hands and the take-
up of treasury bills will remove around 1.79 billion stg. A rise in
note circulation will take out a further 105 mln stg. Partly
offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions will add around 1.01
billion stg and bankers' balances above target some 185 mln stg.
REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED TO 550 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 6 - 
The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the shortage
in the money market back to its initial forecast of 550 mln stg. At
midsession the central bank changed the shortfall to 500 mln and
provided assistance worth 96 mln stg through bank bill purchases in
bands one and two at established dealing rates. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP
    LONDON, March 31 - 
The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the deficit in
the money market today up to a record two billion stg, before taking
account of its morning operations, from 1.85 billion at midday. The
Bank has provided the system with around 1.71 billion stg assistance
so far today. REUTER 

MULFORD SAYS G-6 WANTS STABILITY
    WASHINGTON, March 26 - 
Treasury Assistant Secretary David Mulford said the Paris agreement
among leading industrial nations is intended to produce "reasonable
stability" in exchange markets over the next few months. He told a
Senate Banking subcommittee the Group of Five nations and Canada
agreed in Paris to "see if there can't be a period of reasonable
stability instead of volatility" to give time for the committments in
Paris to take place. Asked by Sen Phil Gramm (R-Tex) whether U.S.
intervention was not in fact overvaluing the dollar, Mulford replied
that the administration judged that after economic adjustments,
current exchange rates reflect underlying economic fundamentals. In
particular, the stability sought by the nations would allow West
Germany and Japan to stimulate their economies domestically and the
U.S. to cut its budget deficit, Mulford said in his testimony. He
stressed that a further sharp fall in the dollar would hurt the
ability of Germany and Japan to boost growth. Mulford noted that half
of West Germany's economy was affected by international developments.
He also said increased Japanese domestic growth would result in more
U.S. exports to Japan and would not necessarily lead to greater
Japanese capital flows to the U.S., as Gramm asserted, if Japan
reformed its domestic capital market. Commenting on the Paris
agreement, Mulford said, "I think exchange rates ought to be
stabilized so (Germany's and Japan's) efforts can be carried out.
Mulford rejected Gramm's argument that faster domestic growth in
Germany and Japan would result in an even lower dollar. Mulford said
the administration wanted to achieve a pattern of higher growth
overseas as a way of improving the U.S. trade deficit. Otherwise, he
said, the trade deficit would be resolved either through a much lower
dollar or a U.S. recession, both alternatives he termed unacceptable
and undesirable. Reuter 

ZAMBIAN CURRENCY FALLS AT FOREIGN EXCHANGE AUCTION
    LUSAKA, April 5 - 
The Zambian currency further depreciated yesterday at the second
auction since the introduction of a two-tier foreign exchange system
last month. The (central) Bank of Zambia said the kwacha was pegged at
16.99 to the dollar, compared to last week"s rate of 15 to the dollar.
The bank, which offered six mln dlrs at the auction, reported demand
for 13.4 mln dlrs. At the previous auction, the government offered
eight mln dlrs. Last month the government set a fixed exchange rate of
nine kwacha per dollar, subject to adjustment against a basket of five
currencies, for certain official transactions. It also introduced a
new weekly foreign exchange auction only for parastatal organisations
and the private sector, where the exchange rate is allowed to float in
accordance with market demand. The new auction system is designed to
be more restrictive than the previous one, suspended in January after
the central bank fell 10 weeks in arrears to successful bidders. Under
the new system, no bidder, except the the state oil company Zimoil and
the national airline Zambia Airways, is allowed to bid for more than
five pct of the foreign exchange on offer. REUTER 

UK MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED TO ONE BILLION STG
    LONDON, March 13 - 
The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's
shortfall to one billion stg, before taking account of 646 mln stg
morning assistance. REUTER 

HUNGARY TO DEVALUE FORINT AGAINST WESTERN UNITS
    BUDAPEST, March 11 - 
Hungary is to devalue the forint by an average of eight pct against
Western currencies, the official news agency MTI said. MTI did not say
when the devaluation would become effective, but it expected new rates
to be announced later today. Hungary devalued the forint by a similar
amount last September 23. Western bankers say the forint is more
realistically valued than currencies of Hungary's COMECON allies.
REUTER 

Miyazawa says time has come for major nations to act on exchange rates




U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN
    LONDON, March 19 - 
The Bank of England said it revised down its estimate of the deficit
in the system today to 400 mln stg from 450 mln. REUTER 

BANK OF ENGLAND FORECASTS SURPLUS IN MONEY MARKET
    LONDON, March 30 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a liquidity surplus of around 100
mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting
liquidity, exchequer transactions will add some 985 mln stg to the
system today while a fall in note circulation and bankers' balances
above target will add around 360 mln stg and 110 mln stg respectively.
Partly offsetting these inflows, bills for repurchase by the market
will drain some 785 mln stg while bills maturing in official hands and
the treasury bill take-up will remove about 546 mln stg. REUTER 

BUNDESBANK SETS NEW REPURCHASE TENDER
    FRANKFURT, April 7 - 
The Bundesbank set a new tender for a 28-day securities repurchase
agreement, offering banks liquidity aid at a fixed bid rate of 3.80
pct, a central bank spokesman said. Banks must make their bids by 1400
GMT today. Funds will be allocated by 0900 GMT tomorrow and credited
to accounts later in the day. Banks must repurchase securities pledged
on May 6. REUTER 

BALDRIGE SAYS CHANGES NEEDED IN EXCHANGE RATES OF CURRENCIES PEGGED TO DOLLAR




OFFICIAL WANTS ARAB FUND TO HELP LEBANESE POUND
    ABU DHABI, March 28 - 
Lebanese central bank Vice Governor Meguerditch Bouldikian called for
the establishment of an Arab fund to assist the Lebanese pound, which
has lost more than 80 pct of its value against the dollar since
January 1986. Bouldikian told an Arab exchange dealers conference the
bank would continue to take measures to defend the currency. But he
said Lebanon needed foreign support for its war-battered economy now
more than ever before. "We expect a common effort between the central
bank and Arab central banks and monetary authorities to create an Arab
fund to support and preserve the value of the currency when needed,"
he said. Twelve years of civil war have devastated productive sectors
of the Lebanese economy and created gaping trade and budget deficits.
Bouldikian said recent government measures had succeeded in reducing
demand for imports and increasing exports. "These are encouraging
factors, but the war has not ended yet," he said. "We believe that
with a just political solution acceptable to all sides, confidence
will return and this will benefit the Lebanese pound and Lebanon." In
the meantime, he said the central bank had four main goals: 1) to use
surplus liquidity to finance the budget deficit 2) to increase the
role of commercial banks and non-bank financing institutions in
financing the deficit 3) to limit the transfer of Lebanese pounds into
foreign currency deposits 4) to protect the financial health of
commercial banks. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 663 MLN STG HELP
    LONDON, March 27 - 
The Bank of England said it gave the money market a further 663 mln
stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Bank's total
assistance so far today to 928 mln stg and compares with its forecast
shortage which it earlier revised up to 850 mln stg from 750 mln. The
central bank purchased bills in band one at 9-7/8 pct comprising 267
mln stg bank bills, four mln stg local authority bills and one mln stg
treasury bills. It also bought 378 mln stg bank bills and 13 mln stg
of treasury bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 115 MLN STG ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 24 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 115 mln
stg assistance in the morning session. This compares with the Bank's
forecast of a 300 mln stg shortage in the system today. The central
bank bought bills outright in band two at 9-13/16 pct comprising 73
mln stg bank bills and 42 mln stg local authority bills. REUTER 

BANK OF FRANCE AGAIN BUYING DOLLARS, SOURCES SAY
    PARIS, March 27 - 
The Bank of France intervened in the Paris foreign exchange market
this morning for the third successive day, banking sources said. Like
yesterday, it bought dollars and sold yen in small amounts, they said.
One dealer said it was seen in the market twice in early dealing,
buying five mln dlrs each time. Other dealers also reported small-
scale intervention to stabilise the dollar after aggressive selling
overnight in Tokyo, where the Bank of Japan also intervened again. The
dollar steadied at around 6.0650/0700 francs after easing in early
trading to 6.0615/35 from an opening 6.0700/50. It closed yesterday at
6.0800/30. One major french bank said it bought 10 mln dlrs for the
central bank, selling yen, within a trading range of 148.20/30 yen to
the dollar, compared with yesterday's 149.28 rate at which
intervention was carried out here. The yen later firmed to around
147.90/148.00. Reuter 

JAPAN CAREFULLY CONSIDERING MONEY POLICY -- SUMITA
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said the central bank will
carefully consider its monetary policy in light of the recent sharp
fall of the dollar. Asked if the Bank of Japan will consider a further
cut in its discount rate, he said he now thinks the bank will have to
carefully consider its future money policy. He told a Lower House
Budget Committee in Parliament that credit conditions have been eased
by the five discount rate cuts by Japan since the beginning of last
year. Japan must now be especially careful about a flare-up in
inflation, with money supply growth accelerating, he said. Sumita said
the central bank would continue to make a judgement on monetary
policies while watching consumer prices, exchange rates and economic
and financial conditions both in and outside Japan. Asked if the
September 1985 Plaza agreement was a failure because the dollar had
fallen too far, Sumita said he still thought the pact was a good one
in the sense that it had corrected the overvaluation of the dollar.
But the Plaza accord did not set any target for the dollar's fall, he
said. The dollar's steep fall stems from the market's belief that the
trade imbalance will continue to expand, he said. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST AT 300 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 11 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a liquidity shortage of around
300 mln stg in the market today. Among the main factors, the Bank said
bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up would
drain 483 mln stg from the system while below target bankers' balances
and a rise in the note circulation would take out 50 mln and 100 mln
stg respectively. Partially offsetting these, exchequer transactions
would add around 355 mln stg, the Bank added. REUTER 

MIYAZAWA SAYS EXCHANGE RATES WILL STAY STABLE
    TOKYO, March 13 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference he thinks
exchange rates will remain stable due to the currency accord reached
in Paris last month by six major industrialised nations but he did not
say for how long. The dollar has hovered around 153 yen since the six
agreed to cooperate to bring about currency stability. Asked to
comment on remarks by some U.S. Officials calling for a further
decline of the dollar, Miyazawa said only the U.S. President and the
U.S. Treasury Secretary can make official statements about exchange
rates. REUTER 

FED SAYS IT BUYS 550 MLN DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER, MAY
THROUGH SEPT 24 MATURITY




FED GOVERNOR SUPPORTS COMMODITY PRICE GUIDE
    WASHINGTON, March 24 - 
Robert Heller, a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, said commodity prices could form a useful guide for
setting domestic and international monetary policy. Speaking to the
conservative Heritage Foundation, Heller said, "A broadly based
commodity price index may be worth exploring" as a guide to monetary
policy. "In times of rising commodity prices, monetary policy might be
tightened and in times of falling commodity prices, monetary policy
might be eased," he said. Commodities are also standardized to avoid
measurement problems and occur at the beginning of production so as to
give "early warning" signs of wholesale and retail changes. "There is
no need to react to every small fluctuation in commodity prices or to
do so on a daily basis," Heller said in a prepared text. "But if
commodity prices exhibit a broad trend, a policy action might be
considered," he said. Heller said using a broad-based commodity price
index as an indicator for monetary policy would also contribute to
stabilized currency exchange rates. Commodity prices are generally
uniform worldwide and prices for them are more consistent than for
other types of goods, he said. He said other beneficial effects would
be to stabilize export commodity prices for developing countries by
using a commodity basket as a guidepost for monetary policy. Reuter 

TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS U.S. BACKS STABILITY
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said the United States and the five
other industrialized nations signing the recent Paris Accord remain
committed to fostering the exchange rate at around current levels. But
he declined to comment on what he believed to be an appropriate level
of the dollar in world markets. "I'm not going to comment on that
because invariably the exchange markets read either more or less into
my remarks than I might intend," he said in response to a question
from the House Appropriations Committee. Baker said the six nations
participating in the Paris meeting in February had "acknowledged that
the currencies are within ranges that are broadly consistent with the
economic fundamentals and we and the others as well remain prepared to
cooperate closely to foster stability in exchange rates around those
levels." Reuter 

TREASURY'S BAKER PURSUING S. ASIAN REVALUATIONS
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker told the House Appropriations Committee
the United States is still pressing newly industrialized south Asian
nations that have tied their currencies to the dollar to let those
currencies strengthen against the U.S. currency. "We have seen some
strengthening of those currencies (but) not as much as we would like,"
he said. "We have been somewhat disappointed in the results so far,
but we intend to continue these discussions," he said. Reuter 

G-10 FINANCE OFFICIALS DISCUSS DEBT, CURRENCIES
    PARIS, March 20 - 
Deputy Finance Ministers from the Group of 10 leading western
industrialised countries met here to discuss the world debt crisis,
trade imbalances and currency stability today following last month's
Paris monetary accord, sources close to the talks said. The officials
met at the offices of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to discuss
broad aspects of world monetary policy in preparation for the IMF's
interim committee meeting in Washington in April. The talks were the
first high-level international review of the monetary situation since
the accord last month reached by the U.S., West Germany, France,
Britain, Japan and Canada to stabilise world currency markets at
around present levels following the 40 pct slide in the dollar since
mid-1985. Other countries represented at today's talks were Italy,
which refused to attend last month's meeting on the grounds that it
was being excluded from the real discussions, the Netherlands, Belgium
and Switzerland. Many of the officials had met earlier today and
yesterday within the framework of the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) to review the slow progress being
made in cutting the record 170 billion dlr U.S. Trade deficit and
persuading West Germany and Japan to open their economies to more
foreign imports. Reuter 

U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST AT 250 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 9 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 250 mln stg
in the money market today. Among the factors affecting liquidity, it
said bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up
would drain around 1.02 billion stg while below target bankers'
balances would take out a further 140 mln. Against this, a fall in the
note circulation would add 345 mln stg and the net effect of exchequer
transactions would be an inflow of some 545 mln stg, the Bank added.
REUTER 

TAIWAN TO STUDY SUSPENDING FOREX CONTROLS
    TAIPEI, March 28 - 
Premier Yu Kuo-Hua ordered financial officials to quicken the pace of
relaxing foreign exchange controls and study the possibility of
suspending the controls, a cabinet statement said. The statement
quoted Yu as telling Finance Ministy and Central Bank officials the
relaxation was needed to help reduce Taiwan's surging foreign exchange
reserves, which reached a record 53 billion U.S. Dollars this month.
Finance Minister Robert Chien told reporters his ministry and the
Central Bank would work jointly on new measures to ease the controls,
but he did not give details. Yu said the government could maintain the
framework of the foreign exchange controls while finding ways to ease
them. The controls would be used during emergency. Taiwan's reserves
have resulted largely from its trade surplus, which hit 15.6 billion
dlrs in 1986 and 10.6 billion in 1985. About 95 pct of the surplus was
from Taiwan's trade with the United States, according to official
figures. But he said that while easing the controls would help reduce
the reserves, it would not do so substantially in a short time.
Economists and bankers said the new decision resulted from growing
pressure from the United States, Taiwan's largest trading partner,
which buys almost half the island's exports. Lu Ming-Jen, economic
professor at Soochow University, told Reuters: "The decision came a
little bit late. But it was better than never." Ko Fei-Lo, Vice
President at First Commercial Bank, said the government should rapidly
relax its foreign exchange controls and open its market wider to help
balance trade with its trading partners, especially the United States.
"The liberalisation in both imports and foreign exchange controls will
not only help our trading partners, but also help our own economic
problems," he said. He said the mounting foreign exchange
reserveshelped boost Taiwan's money supply by 48.22 pct in the year to
end-February. REUTER 

U.S. TREASURY'S MULFORD REAFFIRMS G-6 PACT TO FOSTER CURRENCY STABILITY AROUND CURRENT LEVELS




YEUTTER PUTS CURRENCY BURDEN ON TAIWAN, KOREA
    NEW YORK , March 5 - 
Responsibility for the appreciation of the Taiwan dollar and the South
Korean Won lies soley with those countries, said U.S. trade
representative Clayton Yeutter Speaking to the Asia Society, Yeutter
said that it is in those countries' own long-term interest to raise
the value of their currencies against the dollar. Yeutter was
responding to a question about what the U.S. could do to encourage
appreciation of those currencies against the dollar in order to reduce
the large U.S. trade deficits with Taiwain and Korea. "An undervalued
currency will help those countries' exports in the short term, but in
the long run they have to be concerned about how they are perceived in
the international business community," Yeutter said. For Taiwan,
Yeutter said that with its per capita trade surplus with the U.S.,
much larger than that of Japan's, and with huge foreign exchange
reserves, it was difficult to defend the high import tarrifs and other
barriers that prevail in that country. He also said that the south
Korean Won should begin to move to reflect underlying economic
fundamentals, "otherwise in two or three years' time, Korea will be in
the same situation that prevails in Taiwan." Turning to the U.S.
deficit with Japan of more than 50 billion dlrs, Yeutter said that
this situation was not sustainable. "Something must give soon. If not,
there is a great threat of U.S. legislative action to counteract that
trend," Yeutter said. Reuter 

FRANCE REPAYS SOME OF CURRENCY INTERVENTION DEBT
    PARIS, March 13 - 
France today repaid 21.95 billion francs of short-term currency
intervention debt to the European Monetary Cooperation Fund, EMCF, the
Finance Ministry said. It said the debt was part of a 33.90 billion
franc liability incurred through the activation of EMCF swap
facilities to defend the franc before the January 11 European Monetary
System realignment. The realignment, following several weeks of
speculative pressure, produced a three pct revaluation of the West
German mark and the Dutch guilder against the French franc and a two
pct revaluation of the Belgian franc. REUTER 

VOLCKER SAYS RESTRICTIVE MONETARY POLICY WOULD HURT INVESTMENT




BANK OF FINLAND WILL ANNOUNCE NEW MEASURES
    HELSINKI, March 20 - 
The Bank of Finland called a news conference at 1200 GMT to announce
new measures for the "development of the system of monetary control."
A spokesman for the Bank declined to give further details. Banking
sources said they expected the bank to announce it will actively take
part in the interbank market and buy and sell certificates of deposit.
The state treasury issues government paper with a maturity of up to
one year. The central bank has so far not issued its own paper, the
sources said. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET FORECAST REVISED TO SHOW SURPLUS
    LONDON, March 25 - 
The Bank of England said it had revised its forecast of the liquidity
position in the money market today to a surplus of 150 mln stg after
it estimated a flat position earlier this morning. REUTER 

MONETARY AUTHORITIES SAID TO LOSE CREDIBILITY
    TOKYO, March 26 - 
The monetary authorities of the major industrialised countries lost
their credibility this week as the dollar was sold off despite pleas
from ministers and widespread central bank intervention, dealers said.
The dollar's fall below 150 yen, which follows last month's Paris
currency stabilisation agreement by the U.S., Japan, West Germany,
Britain, France and Canada, is a dramatic reversal of the success of
the Group of Five (G-5) 1985 New York Plaza meeting to weaken the
dollar, they said. The G-5 and the market agreed in 1985 that the
dollar was overvalued but this time the market and the authorities are
on different sides, dealers said. Apparent confusion in the ranks of
the G-5 nations has encouraged the market to challenge the authorities
despite concerted intervention by the central banks of the United
States, Japan, Britain and West Germany, they said. Pleas by Japanese
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa for action to stabilise the dollar
were matched over the weekend by comments by U.S. Treasury Secretary
James Baker that there was no target zone for the dollar. The dollar
was sold anyway. Yesterday's comment by Baker that he stood by the
Paris accord did nothing to reverse sentiment, dealers said. The
intervention, backed by remarks by Fed Chairman Paul Volcker and
Japanese central bank governor Satoshi Sumita, which a few months ago
would have brought the dollar fall to a halt, has done little but slow
the rate of its decline, they noted. The situation has again raised
the question of whether intervention can succeed against the trend in
today's huge currency markets. Dealers said the market's cool response
to intervention reflected a basic oversupply of dollars. "This means
that the current dollar selling is not of a sheer speculative nature
but backed by real demand," said Koichi Miyazaki, deputy general
manager at Sanwa Bank. Dealers said the dollar will remain weak
despite the intervention and it is only a matter of time before some
operators try to push it below 148 yen. The dollar closed in Tokyo
today at 149.40 against New York's 149.30/40. Its record low was
148.40 in Tokyo last Tuesday. Dealers said the dollar will gain only
temporary support to rise above 150 yen toward early April when the
Group of Seven industrial nations meets to discuss currencies again.
The market expects the seven nations (the Paris six plus Italy) to try
to agree on another way to stabilise currencies apart from
intervention, a chief dealer at a U.S. Bank said. Dealers said they
were unsure what other methods could be used and they are sceptical
anyway about how long the Paris accord nations, particulary the U.S.,
Will remain willing to prevent a further dollar fall given the
continuing high U.S. Trade deficit, especially with Japan. Further
pressure from a protectionist U.S. Congress for a lower dollar is also
limiting Washington's options, they said. The market now thinks the
central bank action is to slow the dollar fall, not to push it back
over 150 yen, said Tadahiko Nashimoto, manager at Long Term Credit
Bank of Japan. Another bearish factor for the dollar is expected large
forward dollar sales from April to June for export bills falling due
for Japanese exporters from April to September. The exporters had
delayed in expectation of a further yen depreciation, dealers said.
Yesterday's request to 30 trading houses by the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry to restrict dollar sales looks
ineffective in light of this real demand, they said. The market is
also anticipating active institutional dollar sales to hedge currency
risks on bond holdings from the new business year starting April 1,
dealers said. "The market seems to have established a new dollar
trading range between 147 and 149 yen," one dealer said. The dollar
traded between 151 and 153 yen after the Paris accord on February 22
and 150 yen was then considered the low end for the dollar against the
yen, he said. Some dealers now believe that if the dollar falls below
148 yen, it will pick up renewed downward momentum and slide to 145.
REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET FORECAST REVISED TO DEFICIT
    LONDON, March 26 - 
The Bank of England said it revised its estimate of today's money
market shortfall to around 350 mln stg from a flat position. REUTER 

TREASURY'S BAKER PURSUING S. ASIAN REVALUATIONS
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker told the House Appropriations Committee
the United States is still pressing newly industrialized south Asian
nations that have tied their currencies to the dollar to let those
currencies strengthen against the dollar. "We have seen some
strengthening of those currencies (but) not as much as we would like,"
he said. "We have been somewhat disappointed in the results so far,
but we intend to continue these discussions," he said. Reuter 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 224 MLN STG ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, April 7 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 224 mln
stg help in the morning session. This compares with the Bank's
forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 850 mln stg which
it earlier revised up from 800 mln. The central bank bought bank bills
comprising 27 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 21 mln stg in band two
at 9-13/16 pct and 171 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. It also
purchased three mln stg of treasury bills and two mln stg of local
authority bills in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 16 - 
The Bank of England said it invited an early round of bill offers from
discount houses after forecasting a shortage in the system of some
1.05 billion stg. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills
maturing in official hands and treasury bill take-up will drain some
1.07 billion stg while exchequer transactions will take out around 335
mln stg and bankers' balances below target five mln stg. Partly
offseting these outflows, a fall in note circulation will add some 355
mln stg to the system today. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 215 MLN STG LATE HELP
    LONDON, March 31 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with late
assistance of around 215 mln stg. This takes the bank's total help
today to some 2.096 billion stg and compares with its forecast of a
two billion stg shortage in the system today. REUTER 

SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central
bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange
rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial
nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including
market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris
agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France,
Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising
exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued
after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40.
"It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of
floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150
yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he
said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then
were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and
further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment
prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said. REUTER 

GERMAN CALL MONEY EASES AFTER LIQUIDITY INJECTION
    FRANKFURT, March 11 - 
Call money eased to 3.75/80 pct from 3.80/85 yesterday following a net
injection of 6.7 billion marks at a rate of 3.80 pct in fresh funds
from this week's securities repurchase agreement, dealers said. But
rates were expected to rise toward the end of the week. A major tax
payment period by banks on behalf of customers, payments for the
federal railways loan stock and repayments of mark liabilities
incurred by foreign central banks with the Bundesbank in the framework
of the European Monetary System (EMS) are likely to significantly
burden the system. Banks built up minimum reserves today, ahead of the
expected outflow. The Bundesbank credited banks with a gross 15.2
billion marks, but some 8.5 billion left the system at the same time
as an earlier securities repurchase pact matured. Dealers estimated
the EMS related outflow as high as six billion marks. The Bundesbank
declined to comment, but a spokesman said yesterday although the funds
now due may be allowed to roll over, the possibility that other
central banks may choose to redeem them meant a net infusion was
needed. Dealers forecast tax payments of 25 and 30 billion marks, but
much of it is expected to burden the system only next week. Banks'
minimum reserve holdings at the Bundesbank totalled 53.6 billion marks
on Monday, averaging 54.0 billion over the first nine days of March.
Dealers said although the figure was well above an expected
requirement of around 51 billion marks, the expected outflow of funds
was so large that banks might find it difficult to meet the
requirement toward the end of March. No securities repurchase
agreement is expiring next week, but dealers said the Bundesbank could
offer fresh liquidity if conditions significantly tighten. "The
Bundesbank wants to keep rates around 3.80 pct," one dealer said.
REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 450 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 17 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 450 mln stg
in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity,
bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills
will drain some 650 mln stg while banker's balances below target will
take out around 50 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows,
exchequer transactions and a fall in note circulation will add some
200 mln stg and 50 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 

BANK OF ENGLAND OFFERS EARLY HELP IN MONEY MARKET
    LONDON, March 12 - 
The Bank of England said it had invited the discount houses to make an
early round of bill offers to help offset a large liquidity shortage
in the money market. It estimated the shortage at around 1.55 billion
stg, one adverse factor being the unwinding of a sale and repurchase
agreement, with the market having to buy back bills worth 542 mln stg
from the Bank. Bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill
take-up would drain 957 mln stg wile exchequer transactions and a note
circulation rise would take out 15 mln and 25 mln respectively. Above
target bankers' balances would add 10 mln. REUTER 

ITALY SAYS G-7 GIVES CHANCE TO VERIFY TOKYO ACCORD
    ROME, April 7 - 
This week's Group of Seven (G-7) meeting in Washington provides an
opportunity to verify an accord reached at the Tokyo summit last May
to include Italy and Canada in Group of Five (G-5) talks on management
of the international monetary system and related issues, the Italian
Treasury said. It said in a statement the G-7 meeting, which Italy
plans to attend, will provide a forum for considering the Tokyo accord
in the light of events in Paris in February this year. On February 22,
Italy boycotted a meeting in Paris of its G-7 partners - the United
States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada - after being
excluded from an earlier session of talks involving G-5 members.
Today's statement from the Italian Treasury said- "Nobody denies the
existence of G-5 but we should like it to be remembered that the Tokyo
accords provided for the enlargement of the group to Italy and Canada
whenever "the management or the improvement of the international
monetary economic policy measures are to be discussed or dealt with.'"
Italy refused to attend the Paris G-7 meeting on the grounds that G-5,
grouping the United States, Japan, West Germany, France and Britain,
had reduced Italy's role to rubber stamping agreements already taken.
The Italian Treasury said today that Italy was "certain that this time
incidents would not occur." But it said it would be opportune to look
in depth at the role and the procedures of G-7 in relation to those of
G-5. REUTER 

BAKER SAYS U.S. WILLING TO COOPERATE TO STABILIZE EXCHANGE RATES




BAKER SAYS U.S. WANTS TO STABILIZE EXCHANGE RATES
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said the United States and other
nations were willing to cooperate to stabilize foreign exchange rates
at the levels that existed at the time of an international agreement
last month. "Our position with respect to the dollar goes back to the
Paris Agreement that the currencies were within ranges broadly
consistent with underlying economic conditions," Baker told a Senate
committee. Baker continued, "We said further that we and others are
willing to cooperate closely to foster stability in exchange rates
around those levels." He referred to a February agreement by six
leading industrial nations to cooperate on monetary matters. Baker
refused to answer a question whether Japan and Germany had done enough
to stimulate their domestic economies for the United States to support
the dollar. "I will not comment because the foreign exchange market
reads more or less than is intended in my statements," Baker said.
Baker said that the other signatories recognized that they must carry
their share of the load of correcting external imbalances that have
hindered the world's economy. He cited news reports that Germany would
increase a proposed tax cut for 1988 by about five billion marks to
stimulate domestic growth. Japan also agreed to consider stimulative
measures after the Japanese budget was made final. Baker said those
nations were stimulating their economies in a manner consistent with
gains against inflation. Reuter 

TREASURY SECRETARY BAKER DECLINES COMMENT ON G-6
    NEW YORK, March 11 - 
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker declined comment on the February
22 Paris accord between the six major industrial nations under which
they agreed to foster exchange rate stability. Asked by reporters
after a speech before the National Fitness Foundation banquet what, if
any, currency intervention levels had been set in Paris, Baker
replied: "We never talk about intervention." Baker also declined to
comment on his views about the foreign exchange markets' reaction to
the accord. REUTER 

AFTER G-6, ROUND ONE GOES TO CENTRAL BANKS
    NEW YORK, March 13 - 
Central banks have easily beaten back the foreign exchange market's
first test of the industrialized nations' recent pact to stabilize
currencies, analysts said. In active trading this week, the market
pushed the dollar, sterling, the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar
higher. But operators got their fingers burned as one by one the
central banks signalled their displeasure. "So far G-6 has been a
roaring success,"said James O'Neill, financial markets economist at
Marine Midland Bank NA. "The central banks are sending strong signals
that they won't tolerate any kind of momentum building behind
currencies," added a senior corporate trader at one U.K. bank. On
February 22, the finance ministers and central bank governors of the
U.S., Japan, West Germany, France and the U.K. -- the Group of Five --
plus Canada, signed an accord under which they agreed to cooperate
closely to foster stability of exchange rates around prevailing
levels. The agreement was viewed by many in the market as an attempt
to put a floor under the dollar after its sizeable two-year decline
against major world currencies. And initially, traders indicated their
respect for the accord by refraining from pushing the dollar lower.
But by Wednesday, the dollar climbed to more than 1.87 marks, about
five pfennigs above its levels the Friday before the G-6 accord. The
move was aided by indications that the U.S. economy picked up steam in
February at the same time as the West German economy was regressing.
But dealers said the Federal Reserve Bank of New York gave traders a
sharp reminder that the G-6 pact had encompassed the idea of limiting
inordinate dollar gains as well as declines. Dealers differed as to
whether the U.S. central bank actually intervened to sell dollars
above 1.87 marks, or simply telephoned dealers to ask for quotes and
enquire about trading conditions. But the dollar quickly backed off.
It hovered today around 1.85 marks. "The market was surprised that the
Fed showed its face so soon," said Marine Midland NA's O'Neill. Also
on Wednesday, London dealers said the Bank of England intervened in
the open market to sell sterling as the U.K. currency rose to 1.60
dlrs compared with 1.5355 dlrs before the G-6 pact. Sterling, along
with the other high-yield currencies like the Australian dollar and
Canadian dollar, was in favor after traders surmised that the the
chance of intervention pursuant to the Paris currency accord left
limited room for profit plays on dollar/mark and dollar/yen. The pound
also was boosted by suggestions of an improving U.K. economy,
anticipation of a popular British budget on March 17 and public
opinion polls showing good chances for the incumbent Conservative
party in any general election. "There was a real run on sterling,"
said Anne Mills of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. Sterling traded today
around 1.5750 dlrs, down from 1.5870 dlrs last night. It slid to 2.917
marks from 2.950 yesterday and from a peak of about 2.98 recently.
"There's been some heavy profit-taking on sterling/mark ahead of next
Tuesday's U.K. budget," said James McGroarty of Discount Corp. As
speculators detected the presence of the U.S. and British central
banks, they acclerated their shift into Canadian and Australian
dollars. But here too they were stymied. The Bank of Canada acted to
slow its currency's rise. The Canadian dollar traded at 1.3218/23 per
U.S. dollar today, down from 1.3185/90 yesterday. And the Australian
Reserve Bank, using the Fed as agent, sold Australian dollars in the
U.S. yesterday, dealers said. The Australian dollar fell to a low of
67.45/55 U.S. cents today from a high of 69.02 Thursday. Analysts said
the central banks' moves to stifle sudden upward movement, leave the
market uncertain about its next step. Today, the focus shifted to the
yen which has held to a very tight range against the dollar for
several months. The dollar fell to 152.35/40 yen from 153.35/40 last
night. Analysts said the yen also gained as traders unwound long
sterling/short mark positions established lately. "Because of the
change in perceptions about the health of the German economy, the
funds from those unwinding operations are ending up in yen," a dealer
at one U.K. bank said. Recent West German data have shown falling
industry orders, lower industrial output and slowing employment gains.
Moreover, the yen is benefitting as Japanese entities who have
invested heavily overseas, for example in Australian financial
instruments, repatriate their profits ahead of the end of the Japanese
fiscal year on March 31. Noting that the dollar/yen rate is in a sense
the most controversial one because of the large U.S. trade deficit
with Japan, analysts said the stage could be set for another test of
the dollar's downward scope against the Japanese currency. In its
latest review of the foreign exchange market through the end of
January, the Federal Reserve revealed that it intervened to protect
the dollar against the yen on January 28. On that day, the dollar fell
as low as 150.40 yen. "Sure, the Fed bought dollars near the 150 yen
level in January. But the market has to bear in mind that time marches
on and the situation changes," said McGroarty of Discount. Reuter 





CHICAGO FUTURES LEADER SAYS MARKETS CAN ADAPT
    BOCA RATON, Fla., March 23 - 
Foreign currency futures markets would not be harmed if the leading
industrial countries agreed to restrict currency movements to within a
narrow band, said Leo Melamed, chairman of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange's, CME, executive committee. "The target zone would not
affect our market I think at all.... A 10 pct range in the Deutsche
mark gives us a healthy market," Melamed told Reuters in an interview.
"We were willing to live in the old Smithsonian era with a four pct
shift," he said, referring to permitted currency fluctuations in the
early 1970s. "One thing you can adjust is to make each contract a
larger value." As chairman of the CME in 1969-71, Melamed was
instrumental in the development of currency futures, which now are
crucial to the Chicago exchange. Melamed said capital flows -- which
he estimated can approach 200 billion dlrs a day -- would overwhelm
efforts by governments to control currency fluctuations. "They can do
it for a day, in terms of intervention, an hour, a week maybe, but not
over a period of time. So it's unrealistic and it doesn't work and
it's unnecessary." The CME's top policymaker also said a decision by
the exchange to advance the quarterly settlement time of its stock
index futures contract to the morning from the afternoon would help
eliminate dramatic price gyrations in futures and equity markets on
so-called "triple-witching" day. "We think that the settlement in the
morning will have a salutary effect so that over a longer period of
time I think this issue (triple witching) will go away because of the
change in the structure as of next June," when the move is scheduled
to go into effect, he said. Melamed said proposed changes in floor
practices by traders of the popular Standard and Poor's 500 stock
index future would address complaints of trading abuses and stimulate
trading. Two weeks ago, the CME board of directors proposed barring
brokers on the top step of the pit from trading for their own account.
The board also proposed requiring brokers engaged in dual trading
elsewhere in the pit to record personal trades to the nearest minute
and curbing trading between broker groups. The changes "will in time
have an extremely positive effect on the marketplace. That's going to
prove very, very instrumental in increasing volume over time," he
said, predicting the increase would come within a year. Melamed, also
chairman of Dellsher Investment Co Inc, said the CME last week
withdrew a proposal to put a 12-point limit on the S and P 500 index's
daily price movement when the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
told the exchange it could not be a temporary program. The CME also
received "many negative comments, many more than we anticipated,"
Melamed conceded. Many futures commission merchants predicted sell
orders would accelerate in the event the price approached the bottom
limit. Reuter 

SWISS SIGHT DEPOSITS RISE 743.7 MLN FRANCS
    ZURICH, March 23 - 
Sight deposits of commercial banks at the Swiss National Bank rose
743.7 mln Swiss francs in the second 10 days of March to 8.40 billion,
the National Bank said. Foreign exchange reserves fell 392.1 mln
francs to 33.55 billion. Sight deposits are a major indicator of money
market liquidity in Switzerland. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 40 MLN STG LATE HELP
    LONDON, April 2 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with around
40 mln stg late assistance. This takes the Bank's total help today to
some 537 mln stg and compares with its estimate of a 700 mln stg
shortage. REUTER 

VOLCKER SEES TIGHT POLICY HURTING INVESTMENT
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said a restrictive
monetary policy would be damaging to investment and that a better
course would be to restrain spending. "A restrictive monetary policy
would hit investment. You don't want to put interest rates up unless
you have to," Volcker told the Senate Banking Committee. "That is not
a constructive way to proceed," he said. Volcker said that given a
choice between squeezing the budget deficit or squeezing investment,
he would favor squeezing the budget deficit. In response to a question
about banks, Volcker said he would be pleased if Congress decided to
give banks a tax writeoff as an incentive for them to take greater
reserves against loans to debtor countries. "If you give a tax
writeoff for reserving against loans, then we will see more reserving
and that would make me happy," Volcker told Committee Chairman Sen
William Proxmire (D-Wisc). Reuter 

BAHRAIN INTRODUCES NEW MONEY MARKET REGIME
    BAHRAIN, March 30 - 
Bahrain is introducing a new domestic money market regime to provide
dinar liquidity aid centred on the island's newly launched treasury
bill programme. The Bahrain Monetary Agency has issued a circular to
all commercial banks outlining a new policy from April 1 which gives
liquidity aid through sale and repurchase agreements in treasury
bills, or through discounting them. The circular, released officially
to Reuters, said current arrangements for providing liquidity aid will
no longer be valid except "in quite exceptional circumstances." Under
the current system, the agency provides the island's 20 commercial
banks with dinar liquidity by means of short-term swaps against U.S.
Dollars and, less frequently, by short-term loans secured against
government development bonds. "The agency considers that it is now
appropriate to replace these operations with short-term assistance
based on Government of Bahrain treasury bills," the circular to banks
states. The agency said it will repurchase treasury bills with a
simultaneous agreement to resell them to the same bank at a higher
price which will reflect an interest charge. The agency said it
envisages the repurchase agreements will normally be for a period of
seven days. Bahrain launched a weekly tender for two mln dinars of
91-day treasury bills in mid-December last year and has since raised a
total of 26 mln dinars through the programme. Bahrain's commercial
banks are currently liquid and have been making little use of the
traditional dollar swaps offered by the agency. But banking sources
said the new regime from April 1 will mean banks cannot afford not to
hold treasury bills in case they need funds from the central bank.
Banking sources said more than half of the 20 banks hold treasury
bills, although the need by others to take up paper could increase
demand at weekly tenders and push down allotted yields slightly. Last
week's yield was six pct, although the programme had started at the
end of last year with rates as low as 5.60 pct. Banking sources said
the cost of liquidity through repurchase accords will not differ much
from that on dollar swaps. But a bank using dollars to obtain
liquidity would foresake interest on the U.S. Currency while the
underlying treasury bill investment is unaffected in a repurchase
accord. REUTER 

BANK OF ZAMBIA PAYS OUT FOREIGN CURRENCY ARREARS
    LUSAKA, March 9 - 
The Bank of Zambia has paid out foreign exchange arrears from three
auctions conducted last year, a bank spokesman said. "We have now
cleared three auctions and are left with only four, worth eight mln
dlrs," the spokesman said without specifying the amount paid out. The
bank had not paid foreign exchange to private firms since it suspended
the weekly auctions on January 28. It has said the auctions were
suspended because it planned to introduce a modified system after
talks with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
President Kenneth Kaunda announced last month that the auction would
be retained for allocating foreign exchange to approved private sector
bidders, but would not be used to determine the kwacha's exchange
rate. Last week, he said the auction had run into trouble because of a
shortage of foreign exchange. The government has fixed the exchange
rate at nine kwacha per dollar, effectively revaluing the kwacha by
67.7 pct. REUTER 

CHINA POSTPONES PLAN TO SCRAP PARALLEL CURRENCY
    PEKING, March 28 - 
Chinese Vice-Premier Tian Jiyun said plans to scrap the country's
parallel currency, Foreign Exchange Certificates (FECs), had been
postponed due to objections from foreign businessmen and others. But
Tian told a news conference the Chinese government still considered
FECs unsatisfactory. Asked about the current state of plans to abolish
the FECs, Tian said: "We have decided to postpone the question. As to
whether it will be done in the future, it will be done according to
the evolution of the situation." He said many people, including
foreign businessmen, had raised objections to the plan to abolish the
certificates, and added: "It is rather complicated." The FECs were
introduced in 1980 for use by foreigners in China. But they now
circulate widely among local residents and there is a big black market
in the currency, though it is theoretically at par with the ordinary
Chinese currency, renminbi. Tian said the government still considered
that the FECs had "many demerits and negative influences." Bank of
China President Wang Deyan told Reuters earlier this month that he
thought it unlikely that the certificates would be scrapped this year.
Western diplomats and economists have said the Chinese authorities are
having trouble finding a suitable alternative. Vice-Premier Yao Yilin
announced at a similar press conference last year that the FECs would
be abolished, saying the government had decided it was ideologically
unacceptable to have two currencies circulating in China at the same
time. REUTER 

AUSTRIA DOES NOT INTERVENE TO SUPPORT DOLLAR
    VIENNA, March 27 - 
The Austrian National Bank did not intervene on the foreign exchange
markets today to support the dollar, deputy banking department chief
Herbert Danzinger told Reuters. He denied a suggestion by a dealer at
one Vienna bank that the National Bank had sold marks to support the
U.S. Currency. Senior dealers at Creditanstalt and Girozentrale,
Austria's two largest banks, said they would have been aware of any
National Bank intervention. Any dollar purchases by the Bank today
were for purely day-to-day purposes, they said. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 129 MLN STG ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 30 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with
assistance worth 129 mln stg in the afternoon session. This compares
with the Bank's forecast of a shortage in the system today of around
100 mln stg. The central bank purchased 129 mln stg bank bills in band
one at 9-7/8 pct. REUTER 

EXCHANGE RATE BILL CLEARS U.S. HOUSE PANEL
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
The House Banking Committee adopted legislation to direct the U.S.
Treasury to begin negotiations aimed at seeking regular adjustment of
exchange rates by countries such as Taiwan and South Korea whose
currencies are pegged to the value of the U.S. dollar. The measure was
adopted as part of a wide-ranging trade bill that will be considered
by the full House in April before it moves onto the Senate. The bill's
many provisions also set as a priority for the U.S. the negotiation of
stable exchange rates and urge government intervention as necessary to
offset fluctuations. Reuter 

BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS
    TOKYO, April 7 - 
The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow a total of 800 billion yen worth
of financing bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money
market surplus of 1,300 billion yen, money traders said. Of the total,
400 billion yen will yield 3.8502 pct on sales from money houses to
banks and securities houses in a 41-day repurchase accord maturing on
May 19. Another 400 billion yen will yield 3.7991 pct in a 20-day
repurchase pact maturing on April 28, they said. The repurchase
agreement yields compare with the 3.8125 pct one-month, and 3.7500 pct
three-week commercial bill discount rates today. Tomorrow's surplus is
attributable to government tax allocations to local governments and
public entities. The operation will put outstanding bill supply at
about 4,300 billion yen, they said. REUTER 

BANK OF ENGLAND OFFERS EARLY HELP TO MONEY MARKET
    LONDON, March 13 - 
The Bank of England said it invited an early round of bill offers to
help ease tight conditions in the money market. The bank estimated
today's liquidity shortage at about 1.10 billion stg. Bills maturing
in official hands and the treasury bill take-up would drain 1.21
billion stg from the system while a rise in the note circulation and
below target bankers' balances would take out 265 mln and 180 mln
respectively, the bank said. Against this, exchequer transactions
would add a net 535 mln stg. REUTER 

ITALIAN PANEL URGES EXCHANGE LIBERALIZATION
    ROME, March 19 - 
Liberalization of Italy's foreign exchange controls should be
"gradual" but also "reasonably rapid," a report issued by a study
committee nominated by the Italian Treasury Ministry said. The report,
looking at the country's financial development prospects, said Italy's
large public sector deficit and growing public debt were among the
considerations that made a gradual liberalization preferable. The
report also favoured retention of the lira's six pct oscillation band
with the European Monetary System (EMS) during the liberalization
process in order to lessen short-term domestic interest rate
fluctuations which could result from portfolio adjustments. The lira's
fluctuation margin is currently significantly higher than that allowed
for other EMS currencies. Italy has over recent months announced a
series of deregulation moves in response to a European Community
directive aimed at creating a genuine common market in goods, services
and finance by 1992. Reuter 

TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS PACT
    WASHINGTON, March 26 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said he stood by the Paris agreement
among leading industrial nations to foster exchange rate stability
around current levels. "I would refer you to the Paris agreement which
was a recognition the currencies were within ranges broadly consistent
with economic fundamentals," Baker told The Cable News Network in an
interview. "We were quite satisfied with the agreement in Paris
otherwise we would not have been a party too it," he said. Baker also
noted the nations agreed in the accord to "co-operate to foster
greater exchange rate stability around those levels." He refused to
comment directly on the current yen/dollar rate but said flatly that
foreign exchange markets recently tended "to draw unwarranted
inferences from what I say." Baker was quoted on British Television
over the weekend as saying he has no target for the U.S. currency, a
statement that triggered this week's renewed decline of the dollar. "I
think the Paris agreement represents evidence that international
economic policy co-ordination is alive and well," Baker said. The
Treasury Secretary stressed however it was very important for the main
surplus countries to grow as fast as they could consistent with low
inflation to resolve trade imbalances. He added that Federal Reserve
Board chairman Paul Volcker has also "been very outspoken" in
suggesting main trading partners grow as fast as they can. Reuter 

CURRENCY EXCHANGE LOSS PUSHES MALAYSIA'S DEBT UP
    KUALA LUMPUR, March 26 - 
An exchange loss of 7.6 billion ringgit in 1986 pushed Malaysia's
outstanding external debt up to 50.99 billion ringgit, from 1985's
42.3 billion, the Central Bank said in its annual report. Bank Negara
said although Malaysia's net borrowing dropped in 1986, its external
debt rose due to the 30 pct appreciation of the basket of currencies
against which the ringgit is pegged. The basket comprises principally
the U.S. Dollar, yen, mark, Swiss franc, French franc, sterling,
guilder, Canadian and Singapore dollars, it added. Bank Negara said
growth in external debt, which declined progressively from a peak of
58 pct in 1982 to 13.6 pct in 1985, rose by 20.2 pct in 1986.
Malaysia's debt serving ratio of 17.6 pct of its exports in 1986 is
within the prudency limit of 20 pct, Bank Negara Governor Jaafar
Hussein told reporters. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 191 MLN STG HELP
    LONDON, March 19 - 
The Bank of England said it gave the money market a further 191 mln
stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Bank's total
help so far today to 372 mln stg and compares with its upwards revised
estimate of the shortage in the system of around 400 mln stg. The
central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 15 mln stg in band
one at 9-7/8 pct and 176 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 

FED SAYS IT SETS 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS




STOLTENBERG SAYS PARIS ACCORD POLICY TO CONTINUE
    BONN, April 3 - 
West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said the currency
agreement reached in Paris in February had been successful and would
be continued. Stoltenberg told journalists before he attends next
week's International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington that: "The
... Strategy to stabilise currencies around current levels has proven
its worth and will also determine future developments." Stoltenberg
declined to comment specifically on what he would consider to be an
undervalued dollar but said a dollar around 1.80 marks created
problems for West Germany's exports. He said studies by international
organisations had made it clear that especially in the U.S. And in
Japan major efforts remained necessary to support adjustments in
foreign trade balances via necessary corrections to economic policy.
"No-one would benefit if, after years of over-valuation, the U.S.
Dollar fell into the other extreme, that is, strong under-valuation,"
he said. Stoltenberg said West Germany had a keen interest in a swift
agreement between the U.S. And Japan concerning the current trade
dispute over semi-conductors. Asked whether he believed the markets
would test the Paris currency accord, Stoltenberg did not comment
specifically but noted that much of what had been discussed in Paris
had not been published. The Paris declaration did not state the levels
at which central banks of the major industrialised countries would
intervene. Stoltenberg said that everything had been carefully
considered. He said he had nothing further to add. Reuter 

BANK OF FINLAND TO TRADE IN BANKS' CERTIFICATES
    HELSINKI, March 20 - 
The Bank of Finland said it has started dealings in banks'
certificates of deposits (CDs) with immediate effect and that it was
prepared to issue its own paper to stimulate operations on the
domestic money market. Bank of Finland Governor Rolf Kullberg told a
news conference the Bank will also limit credits on the call money
market from March 30, 1987, by introducing a maximum credit amount and
a penalty rate if banks exceed this ceiling. "The recent introduction
of three-month money and these new regulations are decreasing the role
of the call money market and the discount rate as monetary
instruments," Kullberg said. Bankers welcomed the central bank
measures saying these were needed to accelerate the domestic money
market. The Bank of Finland had never before been allowed to issue its
own CDs, they said. "The central bank for the first time has an
instrument with which it really can influence the price of money in
this country," one banker said. Under the new rules banks are limited
to call money credits to a maximum of 7.5 pct of the total of their
equity capital and cash reserves. A penalty rate of interest of 19 pct
is now introduced if the limit is exceeded. Director Sixten Korkman at
the Bank of Finland's monetary department said he expected the bank to
pursue an active policy on the interbank market as an issuer of own-
CDs. "We are free to do it, so maybe on Monday we will issue the
first, just to see how the system functions. Overall I think we will
issue at least a few times a week," Korkman told Reuters. He said the
bank was likely to aim at CDs with a three-month maturity at first as
the market was best developed for paper of that maturity. The Bank of
Finland introduced last December three-month credits and deposits at
rates determined by the central bank and the commercial banks as a
shift away from the traditional overnight call money market. Liquidity
on the call credit market has fallen from around nine billion markka
in early December to 167 mln last week, while three-month credits have
risen to three to four billion. On the interbank market there has been
an increasing trade in banks' CDs, estimated to be some eight billion
markka. In addition, commercial paper accounts for around five billion
markka and Treasury Bills two billion. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 10 MLN STG LATE ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 24 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with late help
of about 10 mln stg. This takes the bank's total help today to some
229 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 300 mln stg shortage.
REUTER 

TAIWAN SAYS U.S. WANTS TAIWAN DOLLAR TO APPRECIATE
    TAIPEI, March 16 - 
The United States wants Taiwan's currency to appreciate faster to
reduce Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S., A senior trade official
said. Board of Foreign Trade director Vincent Siew told reporters on
Saturday U.S. Officials told him in Washington last week that unless
Taiwan allowed its dollar to rise faster it would face retaliation.
Siew returned from Washington on Friday after the U.S responded to
Taiwan's request to increase its textile export quotas by promising
further talks in May. Taiwan's surplus with the U.S. Hit a record 13.6
billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986. Washington signed a three-year accord with
Taipei last year limiting textile export growth to 0.5 pct a year.
Siew said the Taiwan dollar had risen by about 15 pct against the U.S.
Dollar since September 1985. It surged last week amid indications
Washington was seeking a major rise in its value. It rose four cents
against the U.S. Dollar on Saturday to close at 34.59. Western trade
sources told Reuters Taiwan and the U.S. Have been holding talks on
the currency issue but added it is not clear how far Washington wants
to see the Taiwan dollar rise. REUTER 

EC AGREES ON NEED TO STRENGTHEN EMS
    KNOKKE-HEIST, Belgium, April 5 - 
European Community (EC) finance ministers and central bankers agreed
on the need for greater cooperation to strengthen the European
Monetary System (EMS) against international market turbulence,
officials said. "There was a general will to reinforce the European
Monetary System, with all that implies," Belgian Finance Minister Mark
Eyskens said yesterday after hosting a one-day session of informal
talks at this Belgian coastal resort. The gathering was the first such
discussion since the second major realignment of EMS parities within
nine months in January. The system has come under severe strain as
funds have flowed out of the slumping dollar and into the dominant EMS
currency, the West German mark, sending it soaring against weaker
currencies in the system. But Eyskens said February's agreement
between leading western industrialised nations to stabilise exchange
rates at around current levels was working and this would allow the EC
to speed up its efforts to boost the internal stability of the EMS. He
told a news conference yesterday's meeting agreed on the need for
closer coordination among EMS member governments of interest rate
policies and of interest rate differentials between different
countries. They also agreed they needed better coordination of
exchange market intervention to hold currencies stable, both when they
reached their fixed EMS limits and within their agreed margins. But
Eyskens said this coordination raised a whole range of technical
problems and ministers would discuss these further in Luxembourg in
June on the basis of proposals from the EC's Monetary Committee and
Committee of Central Bank Governors. He said the EC needed a set of
indicators of economic convergence betwen Community countries and it
was important that interest rates fulfilled this role together with
exchange rates and inflation rates. The Belgian minister, whose
country presently holds the presidency of the community, made clear
the meeting had not produced any agreement to move radically forward
in developing the EMS towards the EC's long term goal of economic and
monetary integration. "We have committed ourselves to reestablishing
the normal functioning of the system," Eyskens said. Eyskens has
repeatedly stressed that he believes the EMS has to be reinforced if
the EC's plans to liberalise all movements of capital across national
borders by 1992 are to go ahead. EC executive Commission President
Jacques Delors told the meeting the authority would put forward
proposals for a final phase of capital market liberalisation in
October that would include safeguard clauses for member countries for
which the move would create difficulties. Eyskens said the ministers
and central bankers also discussed the need to "dedramatise"
realignments of EMS parities by letting high-ranking monetary
officials carry them out by telephone rather than calling a meeting of
finance ministers. However, West German sources said Bonn Finance
Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg was unenthusiastic about the idea.
British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson told journalists that
one of the technical issues raised by greater coordination of exchange
market intervention was the question of which currencies should be
used to intervene and held in central bank reserves. He said several
EMS member countries believed the EMS would work better if central
banks held each other's currencies -- an issue of particular
importance regarding West Germany since the Bundesbank holds only
dollars in its foreign exchange reserves. He said the debate on
dedramatising EMS realignments reflected a general feeling among
participants that the way the January reshuffle had been conducted was
unsatisfactory. The realignment was marked by acrimony between France
and West Germany, with each side blaming the other for strains in the
system that forced the parity overhaul. REUTER 





BUNDESBANK BOUGHT DOLLARS AGAINST YEN, DEALERS SAY
    FRANKFURT, March 27 - 
The Bundesbank entered the open market in the late morning to buy
dollars against yen in concert with the Bank of France, dealers said.
The Bundesbank came into the market when the dollar was around 148.10
yen just after it had fallen below 148 to touch 147.80 at 1027 GMT.
The move had little effect, with the dollar still testing 148 yen
ahead of the official fixing. Dealers said the intervention was for
fairly small amounts, in contrast to the Bundesbank's activity on
Wednesday when dealers reported it bought about 100 mln dlrs. The
Bundesbank had no comment. REUTER 

UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 570 MLN STG HELP
    LONDON, March 31 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the market with a further 570 mln
stg assistance during the morning after revising its estimate of the
liquidity shortage to 1.85 billion stg, before taking account of its
early round of bill purchases. Initially, the Bank put the likely
shortage at some 1.75 billion and to help offset this gave early
assistance of 1.143 billion. Its total help so far today amounts to
1.713 billion stg. MORE 

FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES
    NEW YORK, April 7 - 
The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to
arrange two-day repurchase agreements for system account, a
spokeswoman for the New York Fed said. Fed funds were trading at 6-1/8
pct at the time of the direct injection of temporary reserves, dealers
said. Most economists had expected a less aggressive injection of
reserves via customer repurchase agreements. Reuter 

TREASURY SECRETARY BAKER DECLINES COMMENT ON G-6
    NEW YORK, March 12 - 
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker declined comment on the February
22 Paris accord between the six major industrial nations under which
they agreed to foster exchange rate stability. Asked by reporters
after a speech before the National Fitness Foundation banquet what, if
any, currency intervention levels had been set in Paris, Baker
replied: "We never talk about intervention." Baker also declined to
comment on his views about the foreign exchange markets' reaction to
the accord. Reuter 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 120 MLN STG LATE HELP
    LONDON, March 17 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with late
assistance of around 120 mln stg. This brings the bank's total help
today to some 136 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 400 mln
stg shortage in the system. REUTER 

BANK OF FRANCE LAUNCHES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION TENDER - OFFICIAL




FORMER TREASURY OFFICIAL URGES CURRENCY REFORMS
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
Former Treasury official C. Fred Bergsten said a new exchange rate
system is needed to replace the fixed and flexible exchange rate
systems which he said had not worked. "I prefer a move to 'target
zones' in which the major countries would determine ranges of 15-20
pct within which they would pledge to hold their exchange rates by
direct intervention and, as necessary, by changes in monetary and
other policies," Bergsten, now the director of the Institute for
International Economics, said in a statement to a House Banking
subcommittee. "The substantial correction of the exchange rate that
has occurred since early 1985 is enormously welcome, and should
produce a sizeable reduction in the U.S. trade deficit this year and
next, but the imbalance will not fall much below 100 billion dlrs on
present policies, so much more is needed," he said. Reuter 

TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS U.S. REMAINS PREPARED TO FOSTER EXCHANGE RATE STABILITY




U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 800 MLN STG
    LONDON, April 2 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 800 mln stg
in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity,
bills for repurchase by the market will drain some 664 mln stg while
bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills
will take out around 508 mln stg and a rise in note circulation some
45 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions
and bankers' balances above target will add some 380 mln stg and 35
mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 

MIYAZAWA SAYS MAJOR NATIONS ACTING ON PARIS ACCORD
    TOKYO, March 26 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said major nations are taking action
to stabilise exchange rates in line with their agreement in Paris last
month, government sources said. Miyazawa told an Upper House session
the six nations -- Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West
Germany -- are abiding by the Paris accord. The six agreed to
cooperate to stabilise exchange rates at around current levels.
Miyazawa said he wishes to attend a meeting of seven major nations
(G-7) expected just before the IMF/World Bank Interim Committee
meeting in Washington starting on April 9. The sources quoted Miyazawa
as saying Japan is trying to prevent a further rise of the yen. Japan
is taking the matter seriously, he added. Asked if the six nations had
agreed to stabilise the dollar at about 153 yen, the rate prevailing
at the time of the Paris talks, Miyazawa declined to give specific
figures and said any mention of specific rates would create an
"unexpected situation." REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 300 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 24 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 300 mln stg
in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity,
bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills
will drain some 338 mln stg while bankers' balances below target will
take out around 25 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, a fall
in note circulation and exchequer transactions will add some 45 mln
stg and 25 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 

LIFFE FEBRUARY VOLUMES DOWN, BUT EURODOLLARS UP
    LONDON, March 6 - 
Total futures and options turnover on the London International
Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) fell slightly during February,
although daily average Eurodollar volume set a new record, LIFFE said
today. Total futures and options turnover last month was 822,378
contracts, down from January's 881,778, but sharply above the
comparative February 1986 figure of 463,146 lots, it said. Eurodollar
turnover during February was 140,417 lots, against January's 100,941
and the year ago figure of 81,648. The daily average was a record
7,020 lots, up four pct from the previous record, set in March 1985.
February trading encompassed a new daily record of 66,087 contracts on
the 19th of the month, exceeding the previous record of 61,398, which
had been set on February 6, LIFFE said. FT-SE 100 index futures volume
was sharply higher during February, with 22,109 contracts trading,
against January's 15,279 and the year-ago level of 8,181. Open
interest also set new records last month in Eurodollars at 29,372
contracts, in FT-SE 100 at 4,898 and in short sterling interest rate
futures at 19,846 lots. Key futures volumes as detailed by LIFFE were:
Feb'87 Jan'87 Feb'86 Long gilt 424,865 525,354 134,420 Eurodollar
140,417 100,941 81,648 Short sterling 94,720 87,619 67,640 T-bond
84,694 87,980 133,766 FT-SE 22,109 15,279 8,181 Currencies 2,799 2,112
7,737 Short gilt 74 85 6,516 Key options volumes as detailed by LIFFE
were: Feb'87 Jan'87 Feb'86 Long gilt 44,640 54,329 ---- Eurodollar
3,580 1,720 2,844 T-bond 1,737 3,479 ---- Sterling 1,466 2,223 18,191
FT-SE 1,277 657 ---- Total options 52,700 62,408 23,238 (Long gilt,
T-bond and FT-SE index options were not trading in February 1986).
Reuter 

 Bundesbank sets 28-day securities repurchase tender at fixed 3.80 pct




PHILADELPHIA EXCHANGE TO EXTEND HOURS FOR ASIA
    SYDNEY, March 30 - 
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX), a leading trader of currency
options, plans to extend its trading hours to serve Australasian and
Far Eastern markets, exchange president Nicholas Giordano said. He
told reporters the PHLX will open a new session between 1900 and 2300
hours U.S. EST from the beginning of the third quarter this year. The
PHLX is also opening an office in Hong Kong to serve clients in the
region and educate financial markets about the advantages of currency
options, Giordano said. Giordano was in Sydney to start an Asian-
Pacific tour by exchange executives promoting the hedging benefits of
the exchange-trade currency option market against existing over-the-
counter option trading during the local working day. Currency options
pioneered by the PHLX in 1982 had become an accepted means of hedging
against foreign exchange risk and had grown in popularity, he said.
The PHLX now offered options in eight currencies, including a new
Australian dollar option, and traded an average 42,000 contracts daily
with underlying open interest of more than 30 billion U.S. Dlrs.
Giordano said the exchange had been impressed with the performance of
its Australian dollar contract, which since its introduction last year
had regularly topped the French franc as the third most popular traded
option, with up to 8,000 contracts traded daily. Having the
Philadelphia exchange open during the Asia-Pacific market day would
open new hedging opportunities, set a truer level for over-the-counter
option trading, increase arbitraging opportunities and give
corporations and treasuries access to a currency option market of much
greater depth and liquidity with the security of a clearing house, he
said. REUTER 

TREASURY BALANCES AT FED FELL ON MARCH 27
    WASHINGTON, March 30 - 
Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve fell on March 27 to 2.424
billion dlrs from 2.508 billion dlrs on the previous business day, the
Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan
note accounts fell to 9.706 billion dlrs from 10.786 billion dlrs on
the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance
totaled 12.131 billion dlrs on March 27 compared with 13.283 billion
dlrs on March 26. Reuter 

Sumita says major nations cooperated to stabilise currencies.




ARAB BANKER SAYS TOO SOON FOR SINGLE CURRENCY
    ABU DHABI, March 29 - 
Gulf Arab states must coordinate economic policies more closely before
moving towards their goal of a unified currency system, the President
of the Arab Bankers Association said. Hikmat Nashashibi told a news
conference at the end of an Arab currency traders meeting: "We have to
start with coordination of fiscal policies as a prerequisite for a
common system of currencies ... There is quite a substantial way to go
yet." He said only then would a unified Gulf currency system be a
plausible project. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council --
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates -- have held a series of meetings this year to examine
linking their currencies to a single peg in a system which bankers say
could be modelled on the European Monetary System (EMS). At present,
five currencies are linked either officially or in practice to the
U.S. Dollar, while the Kuwaiti dinar is pegged to a trade-weighted
basket of currencies. A common currency system or EMS-style "grid"
would, in theory, foster regional trade by providing a basis for
stable exchange rates, but Nashashibi said inter-Arab trade is at a
very low ebb and capital flows between Gulf states remain small.
"Capital markets in the Arab world are still in their infancy," he
said. Nashashibi said lack of experience among Arab banks, a paucity
of financial instruments and a legal framework that often does not
recognise the western banking concept of interest have hampered the
growth of Arab markets. REUTER 

FED WILL BUY BILLS FOR CUSTOMER AFTER AUCTION
    NEW YORK, March 30 - 
The Federal Reserve said it will enter the U.S. Government securities
market after the 1300 EST weekly bill auction to purchase around 900
mln dlrs of Treasury bills for customers, a spokesman said. He said
the Fed will purchase bills with maturities from May through September
10. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed
announced the operation. Reuter 

MIYAZAWA SAYS U.S. LIKELY TO INTERVENE
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told Parliament's Lower House Finance
Committee that the U.S. Is expected to intervene in the foreign
exchange market to stabilise exchange rates, political sources said.
Asked if the U.S. Federal Reserve Board agreed in Paris last month to
intervene to stabilise exchange rates, Miyazawa said yes, the sources
said. Miyazawa was also quoted as saying that he is sceptical about
the effectiveness of currency reference ranges even if major nations
agree on such an idea as it is extremely difficult to set such ranges.
REUTER 

FED SAYS IT SETS TWO BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS




AUSTRALIAN RESERVE BANK IN BUYING INTERVENTION
    SYDNEY, March 10 - 
The Reserve Bank said at 1230 local time it was offering to buy short-
dated government securities in the short-term money market. The bank's
action followed its purchase of short-dated government stock and six-
day repurchase agreements earlier in the session. Money market traders
said the move was aimed at easing cash market interest rates which had
risen on demand for funds to meet PAYE tax and treasury note
settlement commitments. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED UPWARD
    LONDON, April 3 - 
The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's
shortfall to 750 mln stg from 700 mln. REUTER 

U.S. TREASURY POLICIES SAID UNCHANGED BY DEPARTURE
    WASHINGTON, April 2 - 
The departure of James Baker's closest aide, Deputy Treasury Secretary
Richard Darman, will not change the course of Washington's domestic
and international economic policies, U.S. officials said. Darman, who
has worked alongside Baker for six years, was widely credited with
helping him mastermind initiatives on currency management and
international economic cooperation. U.S. Officials said Darman also
played a key role in shepherding President Reagan's sweeping tax
reform plan through the U.S. Congress. But they flatly dismissed
suggestions that his departure, to the investment banking firm of
Shearson Lehman Brothers, signaled the Baker team was breaking up, or
that the Treasury Secretary himself might leave soon. "It really does
not mean that, he took the opportunity as it came up," one official
said. Another commented, "Baker will miss him, but he's not going to
stand in his way." There has been widespread speculation since last
autumn that Darman sought a Wall Street job. Officials said Darman
felt the passage of tax reform late last year marked an appropriate
moment to bow out. Baker acknowledged Darman would be sorely missed.
"Dick Darman has contributed mightily to the success of this
administration over the past six years and his departure represents a
substantial loss," he said. U.S. Officials admitted Darman's absence
would be an undoubted blow to Baker, who has relied on him for policy
advice, both at the White House and, in Reagan's second term, at the
Treasury. One aide once described Darman as "indispensable" to Baker.
Baker is widely thought to want a more stable currency system and
Darman is generally credited by officials of other nations as Baker's
leading theorist on this issue, favouring target zones to limit
currency fluctuations. Earlier this year, monetary sources said the
U.S. Treasury unsuccessfully sounded out allies on a target zone
system. But a U.S. Official disputed the assessment that, with Darman
gone, Baker would abandon international initiatives. Baker's work as
head of Reagan's Economic Policy Council, spearheading trade policy,
and his skills in negotiating with the Democrat-controlled Congress
will go on as before. Darman's strength was not as an economist, but
as a political strategist "and that's Baker's strength too," the
official said. There were already indications that Baker, who
throughout his time in government has relied on a closely-knit circle
of advisers, has moved swiftly to find a successor. One possibility is
that Baker might turn to George Gould, who holds the number three
Treasury position of Under-Secretary. Gould, another close confidante,
has known Baker for years. Before joining the Treasury in November
1985, Gould was a partner at the Wall Steet firm of Wertheim and Co
and formerly headed Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp.
The Darman announcement came on the eve of the semi-annual meetings of
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, where many
policies Darman helped shape will be debated. He helped Baker devise
the September, 1985 Plaza Agreement, when the United States, Japan,
West Germany, France and Britain curbed the dollar's strength. The
pact was a major turning point in U.S. Policy, ending a period of
disdain for economic cooperation and intervention in currency markets.
Darman also worked on some other Baker initiatives, like the Tokyo
Summit agreement to intensify coordination of economic policies among
the leading industrial countries and the recent Paris Agreement to
stabilise currencies and stimulate global growth. These policies are
collectively aimed at redressing the huge gap between Japan and West
Germany's trade surpluses and the United State's massive trade
deficit. That policy goal still remains a prime objective of the
Reagan Administration and will not change with Darman's departure.
REUTER 

SWISS SIGHT DEPOSITS FALL 2.88 BILLION FRANCS
    ZURICH, March 11 - 
Sight deposits of commercial banks at the Swiss National Bank fell
2.88 billion Swiss francs in the first 10 days of March to 7.65
billion, the National Bank said. Foreign exchange reserves rose 3.30
billion francs to 33.94 billion. Sight deposits are a major indicator
of money market liquidity in Switzerland. The National Bank said banks
paid back 5.5 billion francs of central bank credit taken out at the
end of February for the end-month liquidity requirement. This drain
was offset in part by new currency swaps, which had the effect of
increasing the National Bank's foreign exchange holdings. Bank notes
in circulation fell 309.1 mln francs to 24.49 billion, and other
deposits on call -- basically government funds -- rose 1.06 billion to
2.10 billion. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP WORTH 15 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 9 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the market with unspecified late
assistance worth 15 mln stg. It has given the market total assistance
of 228 mln stg today compared with a liquidity shortage it estimated
at a revised 300 mln stg. REUTER 

JAPAN CONDUCTS CURRENCY SURVEY OF BIG INVESTORS
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
A Finance Ministry official said the ministry has recently conducted a
survey on foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors but
declined to say if it was aimed at moderating their dollar sales.
However, financial market sources said they had heard the ministry has
asked life insurance and securities firms to refrain from selling
dollars, but they were unable to confirm this directly. Dealers said
life insurance firms were not major sellers of dollars in recent
trading sessions because they had already sold them to hedge risks.
Dealers said securities houses and trust banks on the other hand have
aggressively sold the dollar. REUTER 

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - EMS MARKS EIGHTH BIRTHDAY
    BRUSSELS, March 13 - 
The European Monetary System marks its eighth anniversary still
vulnerable to turmoil in world money markets despite creating an
island of currency rate stability in Europe, economists say. But many
economists say the system, which holds eight European Community
currencies within narrow fluctuation bands, remains in its infancy.
Its new currency, the European Currency Unit (Ecu), has been a runaway
success with investors and borrowers alike seeking an alternative to
the volatile dollar. And on Wednesday, the long term vision of the Ecu
as Europe's common currency took a step nearer to becoming reality
when Belgium minted the world's first Ecu coin. But economists say
members such as West Germany have so far blocked a second stage of
development envisaged by the system's founding fathers, ex-West German
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and former French President Valery Giscard
d'Estaing. Under this phase, originally due to have started two years
after the EMS was set up, decision-making was to have been transferred
from national governments and central banks to an autonomous European
Monetary Fund. But members have jealously guarded their sovereignty in
economic and monetary matters. "The basic problem of the EMS is that
governments are not prepared to make the quantum leap to a situation
where certain decisions are taken in common," said one economist who
has closely watched the system's development. The result is that the
EC is often divided over policy on third currencies, accentuating what
the economists say is the system's greatest weakness, its
vulnerability to a weak dollar. Over the past 18 months, as the U.S.
Dollar plunged and investors moved into strong currencies, the
resulting sharp rise of the West German mark severely strained the
system. Another frustration has been Britain's failure to lend the EMS
political support by keeping the pound, still a major world currency,
outside the system. No change in the British government's attitude is
expected before the country's next general elections, due by mid-1988.
Meanwhile, the system's last realignment, the 11th since it was set
up, prompted European finance ministers to ask the EC's highly-
secretive Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governors
to come up with suggestions for reinforcing it. Their ideas are due to
be unveiled when finance ministers hold an informal meeting in Belgium
early next month. But economists said the proposals are unlikely to
involve more than tinkering with technical details. They are sceptical
about the chances for any fundamental change. "Technical measures
won't be enough to protect the EMS against external factors such as
dollar weakness. For that we must take the step forward to the
institutional level," said Leo de Corel of Kredietbank's economic
research department. Economists say the system's fortunes now will
depend largely on the success of an agreement last month among major
industrial nations to stabilise exchange rates. If the dollar resumes
its slide the EMS could be in for more turbulence, they predict.
REUTER 

FED BUYS ONE BILLION DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER
    NEW YORK, April 1 - 
The Federal Reserve is buying one billion dlrs of Treasury bills for
customer account for delivery today, a spokesman for the bank said.
Fed funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct at the time of the purchase,
which came several hours before the Fed normally transacts business
for its customers. Economists said the purchase was almost certainly
related to the investment of proceeds from recent central bank
intervention in the foreign exchanges. The Bank of Japan alone is
estimated to have bought about six billion dlrs in March in a bid to
prop up the dollar. Reuter 

EXCHANGE RATES ALMOST WITHIN G-6 LEVELS - SUMITA
    TOKYO, March 25 - 
Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said that current exchange rates
are almost within the levels agreed to by six major nations last month
in Paris. Asked whether a dollar/yen rate of 148 or 149 reflected
economic fundamentals, he said current rates almost reflect
fundamentals. Sumita told reporters major nations have cooperated to
bring about currency stability in line with the Paris agreement, which
stipulated that they would closely cooperate to that end. He repeated
the central bank will intervene if necessary, adding he did not think
a dollar free-fall was likely. But Sumita said he could not say
exactly what currency levels would be considered in line with
underlying economic fundamentals. In Paris on February 22, Britain,
Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate
to hold currencies around their then current levels. Sumita said he
could not find any specific reasons behind the fall of the dollar to a
record low against the yen yesterday. But he said the market rushed to
sell dollars as it nervously reacted to statements abroad and to
developments surrounding trade tensions. U.S. Treasury Secretary James
Baker said over the weekend that the Paris pact did not encompass
fixed tragets for the dollar. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton
Yeutter called U.S/Japan relations on certain key trade issues very
strained. The market reacted nervously because the dollar has been
moving narrowly against the yen since mid-January, Sumita said. He
added he does not expect the yen/dollar exchange rate to remain
unstable because the market is concerned about a sharp rise of the
yen. The Bank of Japan will keep a close watch on exchange rates in
line with the Paris accord, he added. REUTER 

ASIAN DOLLAR ASSETS EXCEED 200 BILLION DLRS
    SINGAPORE, March 9 - 
The Asian dollar market continued to expand in December with total
assets and liabilities rising to 200.60 billion U.S. Dlrs from 188.54
billion in November and 155.37 billion in December 1985, the Monetary
Authority of Singapore said. It said the increase came mainly from
interbank activity, with interbank lending rising to 146.61 billion
dlrs in December from 134.76 billion in November and 104.93 billion in
December 1985. Interbank deposits increased to 158.52 billion dlrs
against 147.95 billion and 120.03 billion, respectively. Loans to non-
bank customers increased in December to 38.74 billion dlrs from 38.64
billion in November and 37.44 billion in December 1985. Deposits by
non-bank customers rose to 33.81 billion dlrs against 33.60 billion
and 28.02 billion. REUTER 

MIYAZAWA SEES BIG NATIONS REAFFIRMING PARIS PACT
    TOKYO, April 6 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a parliamentary committee he
expects major nations to reafffirm the currency pact they struck in
Paris when they meet this week in Washington, political sources said.
The Minister also was quoted as saying he expects major nations to
take coordinated action to ensure exchange rate stability. Finance
Ministry officials were unavailable for immediate comment. In Paris on
February 22, six nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S.
And West Germany - pledged to cooperate to hold their currencies
stable. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 689 MLN STG EARLY HELP
    LONDON, April 1 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with early
assistance of 689 mln stg in response to an early round of bill offers
from the discount houses. This compares with the Bank's estimate that
the system would face a shortage of around 1.2 billion stg today. The
central bank made outright purchases of bank bills comprising 347 mln
stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 207 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct
and 135 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 550 MLN STG LATE HELP
    LONDON, March 16 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with late
assistance of around 550 mln stg. This takes the Bank's total help
today to some 1.12 billion stg and compares with its estimated deficit
of around 1.10 billion. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 106 MLN STG ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 11 - 
The Bank of England said it gave the money market assistance worth 106
mln stg this afternoon, buying bank bills at the rates established on
Monday. The Bank bought 11 mln stg of band one bills at 10-3/8 pct and
95 mln stg of band two paper at 10-5/16 pct. This is the first time
that it has intervened today. The Bank has revised its estimate of the
liquidity shortage in the market down to 250 mln stg from 300 mln
initially. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, April 1 - 
The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers
from the discount houses after forecasting a shortage of around 1.2
billion stg in the money market today. Among the main factors
affecting liquidity, bills for repurchase by the market will drain
some 526 mln stg while bills maturing in official hands and the take-
up of treasury bills will remove around 1.79 billion stg. A rise in
note circulation will take out a further 105 mln stg. Partly
offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions will add around 1.01
billion stg and bankers' balances above target some 185 mln stg.
REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED TO 550 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 6 - 
The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the shortage
in the money market back to its initial forecast of 550 mln stg. At
midsession the central bank changed the shortfall to 500 mln and
provided assistance worth 96 mln stg through bank bill purchases in
bands one and two at established dealing rates. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP
    LONDON, March 31 - 
The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the deficit in
the money market today up to a record two billion stg, before taking
account of its morning operations, from 1.85 billion at midday. The
Bank has provided the system with around 1.71 billion stg assistance
so far today. REUTER 

MULFORD SAYS G-6 WANTS STABILITY
    WASHINGTON, March 26 - 
Treasury Assistant Secretary David Mulford said the Paris agreement
among leading industrial nations is intended to produce "reasonable
stability" in exchange markets over the next few months. He told a
Senate Banking subcommittee the Group of Five nations and Canada
agreed in Paris to "see if there can't be a period of reasonable
stability instead of volatility" to give time for the committments in
Paris to take place. Asked by Sen Phil Gramm (R-Tex) whether U.S.
intervention was not in fact overvaluing the dollar, Mulford replied
that the administration judged that after economic adjustments,
current exchange rates reflect underlying economic fundamentals. In
particular, the stability sought by the nations would allow West
Germany and Japan to stimulate their economies domestically and the
U.S. to cut its budget deficit, Mulford said in his testimony. He
stressed that a further sharp fall in the dollar would hurt the
ability of Germany and Japan to boost growth. Mulford noted that half
of West Germany's economy was affected by international developments.
He also said increased Japanese domestic growth would result in more
U.S. exports to Japan and would not necessarily lead to greater
Japanese capital flows to the U.S., as Gramm asserted, if Japan
reformed its domestic capital market. Commenting on the Paris
agreement, Mulford said, "I think exchange rates ought to be
stabilized so (Germany's and Japan's) efforts can be carried out.
Mulford rejected Gramm's argument that faster domestic growth in
Germany and Japan would result in an even lower dollar. Mulford said
the administration wanted to achieve a pattern of higher growth
overseas as a way of improving the U.S. trade deficit. Otherwise, he
said, the trade deficit would be resolved either through a much lower
dollar or a U.S. recession, both alternatives he termed unacceptable
and undesirable. Reuter 

ZAMBIAN CURRENCY FALLS AT FOREIGN EXCHANGE AUCTION
    LUSAKA, April 5 - 
The Zambian currency further depreciated yesterday at the second
auction since the introduction of a two-tier foreign exchange system
last month. The (central) Bank of Zambia said the kwacha was pegged at
16.99 to the dollar, compared to last week"s rate of 15 to the dollar.
The bank, which offered six mln dlrs at the auction, reported demand
for 13.4 mln dlrs. At the previous auction, the government offered
eight mln dlrs. Last month the government set a fixed exchange rate of
nine kwacha per dollar, subject to adjustment against a basket of five
currencies, for certain official transactions. It also introduced a
new weekly foreign exchange auction only for parastatal organisations
and the private sector, where the exchange rate is allowed to float in
accordance with market demand. The new auction system is designed to
be more restrictive than the previous one, suspended in January after
the central bank fell 10 weeks in arrears to successful bidders. Under
the new system, no bidder, except the the state oil company Zimoil and
the national airline Zambia Airways, is allowed to bid for more than
five pct of the foreign exchange on offer. REUTER 

UK MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED TO ONE BILLION STG
    LONDON, March 13 - 
The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's
shortfall to one billion stg, before taking account of 646 mln stg
morning assistance. REUTER 

HUNGARY TO DEVALUE FORINT AGAINST WESTERN UNITS
    BUDAPEST, March 11 - 
Hungary is to devalue the forint by an average of eight pct against
Western currencies, the official news agency MTI said. MTI did not say
when the devaluation would become effective, but it expected new rates
to be announced later today. Hungary devalued the forint by a similar
amount last September 23. Western bankers say the forint is more
realistically valued than currencies of Hungary's COMECON allies.
REUTER 

Miyazawa says time has come for major nations to act on exchange rates




U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN
    LONDON, March 19 - 
The Bank of England said it revised down its estimate of the deficit
in the system today to 400 mln stg from 450 mln. REUTER 

BANK OF ENGLAND FORECASTS SURPLUS IN MONEY MARKET
    LONDON, March 30 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a liquidity surplus of around 100
mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting
liquidity, exchequer transactions will add some 985 mln stg to the
system today while a fall in note circulation and bankers' balances
above target will add around 360 mln stg and 110 mln stg respectively.
Partly offsetting these inflows, bills for repurchase by the market
will drain some 785 mln stg while bills maturing in official hands and
the treasury bill take-up will remove about 546 mln stg. REUTER 

BUNDESBANK SETS NEW REPURCHASE TENDER
    FRANKFURT, April 7 - 
The Bundesbank set a new tender for a 28-day securities repurchase
agreement, offering banks liquidity aid at a fixed bid rate of 3.80
pct, a central bank spokesman said. Banks must make their bids by 1400
GMT today. Funds will be allocated by 0900 GMT tomorrow and credited
to accounts later in the day. Banks must repurchase securities pledged
on May 6. REUTER 

BALDRIGE SAYS CHANGES NEEDED IN EXCHANGE RATES OF CURRENCIES PEGGED TO DOLLAR




OFFICIAL WANTS ARAB FUND TO HELP LEBANESE POUND
    ABU DHABI, March 28 - 
Lebanese central bank Vice Governor Meguerditch Bouldikian called for
the establishment of an Arab fund to assist the Lebanese pound, which
has lost more than 80 pct of its value against the dollar since
January 1986. Bouldikian told an Arab exchange dealers conference the
bank would continue to take measures to defend the currency. But he
said Lebanon needed foreign support for its war-battered economy now
more than ever before. "We expect a common effort between the central
bank and Arab central banks and monetary authorities to create an Arab
fund to support and preserve the value of the currency when needed,"
he said. Twelve years of civil war have devastated productive sectors
of the Lebanese economy and created gaping trade and budget deficits.
Bouldikian said recent government measures had succeeded in reducing
demand for imports and increasing exports. "These are encouraging
factors, but the war has not ended yet," he said. "We believe that
with a just political solution acceptable to all sides, confidence
will return and this will 
FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES, FED SAYS




GERMAN WAGE ROUND SAID TO LIMIT MONETARY OPTIONS
    FRANKFURT, March 26 - 
The Bundesbank's options for West Germany monetary policy are limited
for the foreseeable future by the delicate stage of wage negotiations
between unions and employers, economists and money market dealers
said. Call money fell in quite active trading today, dropping to
3.40/50 pct from 3.55/65 pct yesterday, and below the 3.50 pct
treasury bill rate as a difficult month-end approached. But dealers
and economists said the Bundesbank was unlikely to encourage lower
rates in the foreseeable future largely for fear of upsetting the
current wage round. One money market dealer for a major foreign bank
said, "I don't think the Bundesbank wants rates to go up whatever
happens. But it also does not want them to fall. Above all it wants to
wait to see how the unions wage round goes." In West Germany, unions
and employers prepare the ground for triennial wage negotiations based
on detailed assessments of growth and inflation, economists said. Ute
Geipel, economist with Citibank AG, said if the Bundesbank became more
accommodating in monetary policy, raising fears in some quarters of a
return in inflation in the medium term, unions would be obliged to
curtail wage demands. As a result the Bundesbank was concerned to make
no move that would interfere in the negotiating process, Geipel said.
In the current round, the country's most powerful union, the IG Metall
representing metalworkers and engineers, is demanding a shortening of
the working week to 35 hours from the present 38-1/2 and an
accompanying five pct increase in wages. The engineering employers'
association, Gesamtmetall, is offering to bring in a 38-hour-week from
July 1, 1988, and give a two stage wage increase -- a 2.7 pct rise
from April 1 this year and another 1.5 pct from July 1, 1988. The
agreement forged by IG Metall -- Europe's largest union, with 2.5 mln
members -- and the employers would set the benchmark for settlements
in other industries such as the public sector, banks and federal post
office. Negotiations began in December and unions are hopeful they may
conclude by early April, ahead of the traditional holiday period in
June. Though many economists said the unions' current warning strikes
and rhetoric were part of the negotiating strategy and would not lead
to a repeat of 1984's damaging seven-week strikes, others said unions
would not compromise greatly on their positions and there could still
be conflict. This could extend the length of time in which the
Bundesbank would keep its activity low-key, economists said. The money
market head said the unions' humiliation by the protracted financial
problems of the Neue Heimat cooperative housing venture would
contribute to union obstinacy. "The unions haven't forgotten that and
they will put this squarely onto the account in the negotiations," he
said. In addition, the newly-elected chairman of the IG Metall union,
Franz Steinkuehler, was more radical and determined than his
predecessor Hans Meyer and may be set for a longer battle to achieve
the best possible settlement for his membership. More than 16,000
engineering workers at 45 firms, mainly in south Germany, held warning
strikes lasting up to two hours yesterday. Firms hit included
Zahnradfabrik Passau GmbH and aerospace group Messerschmitt-Boelkow-
Blohm GmbH. Today, 28,000 employees from 110 companies came out in
warning strikes, a statement from IG Metall said. Money market dealers
said that overnight call money rates would rise in the near future in
any case and did not depend on a politically-inhibited Bundesbank.
About eight billion marks were coming into the market tomorrow from
salary payments by the federal government. As a result, some banks
fell back on the Bundesbank's offer to mop up liquidity via the sale
of three-day treasury bills, anticipating still lower rates before the
month-end. But a pension payment date by banks on behalf of customers
was due on Monday, other dealers noted. If banks were short of
liquidity until the bills matured on Tuesday, rates could soar,
perhaps to the 5.50 pct Lombard ceiling. Banks were well stocked up
with funds, having an average 52.1 billion marks in Bundesbank minimum
reserves in the first 24 days of March, well above the 50.7 billion
requirement. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST REVISED UPWARDS
    LONDON, March 16 - 
The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the shortage
in the money market today up to 1.15 billion stg before taking account
of its early operations. Earlier, the bank forecast the deficit at
1.05 billion stg and gave 90 mln stg assistance at an early round of
bill offers. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 40 MLN STG LATE ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 19 - 
The bank of England said it provided the money market with late
assistance of around 40 mln stg. This brings the Bank's total help
today to some 412 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a shortage
in the sytem of around 400 mln stg. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED DOWNWARDS
    LONDON, April 1 - 
The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's
shortfall to around 1.25 billion stg from 1.3 billion before taking
account of 775 mln stg morning assistance. REUTER 

BANKERS TRUST ISSUING STG/DLR CURRENCY WARRANTS
    LONDON, March 18 - 
Bankers Trust International Ltd said it is issuing 200,000 stg
call/dlr put currency warrants at an initial offer price of 31.25 dlrs
per warrant. The issue is guaranteed by Bankers Trust New York Corp.
Each warrant entitles the holder to exchange 500 dlrs for stg at a
rate of 1.60 stg/dlr and the minimum number of warrants exercisable or
tradeable is 100. Exercise period for the warrants will run from April
22, 1987 until March 17, 1989. Payment is due April 15, 1987. REUTER 

GULF ARAB STATES MOVE TOWARDS ECONOMIC INTEGRATION
    ABU DHABI, March 18 - 
Finance and economy ministers of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council (GCC) have ended talks after adopting resolutions and
recommendations aimed at boosting economic integration. But the
ministers from Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates (UAE) did not endorse a resolution on a common
currency exchange rate system. The UAE's Minister of State for Finance
and Industry, Ahmed Humaid al-Tayer, told reporters after the two-day
talks that the ministers referred the issue back to GCC central bank
governors for further discussion. He said the governors, who agreed in
January on a proposed denominator on which the six currencies should
be based, were asked to resubmit the recommendation before July, when
finance ministers were due to meet in Saudi Arabia. Bankers said the
central bank governors would meet soon to discuss the issue, adding
there was a possibility that a new system could be submitted for final
approval to a GCC summit conference scheduled to be held in Saudi
Arabia late this year. The denominator approved by the governors has
not been made public, but banking sources said it could be similar to
the European Monetary System (EMS). Tayer said the ministers agreed in
principle to allow GCC citizens to set up businesses and work in any
member state. They also agreed in principle on a recommendation for
citizens to buy and own shares of GCC shareholding firms. He said the
ministers discussed a report on imported goods containing radiation
caused by last year's Chernobyl nuclear disaster in the Soviet Union,
and agreed all products with excessive levels should be returned to
the country of origin. REUTER 

ZAMBIA TO RETAIN CURRENCY AUCTION, SAYS KAUNDA
    LUSAKA, March 2 - 
Zambia will retain its foreign-exchange auction system despite the
suspension of weekly auctions since January 24, President Kenneth
Kaunda said. "We have not run away from the auction. It hasn't been
abolished at all," he told Reuters in an interview. He said the system
would be reintroduced after current talks with the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund and, he hoped, would be backed by fresh
foreign aid funds. Kaunda dismissed central bank statements the new
auction system would be used to allocate foreign exchange to private
bidders but not to fix the exchange rate. Kaunda said the auction
system had faltered because of the government's shortage of foreign
exchange to meet demand. It was suspended when the kwacha's rapid
devaluation and strong fluctuations made economic planning almost
impossible for the government and the private sector, he said. Weekly
foreign-exchange auctions began in October 1985. The kwacha fell from
2.20 to the dollar to about 15 in 16 months. In January 1987 the
government was more than two months in arrears in paying foreign
currency to successful bidders, and the auction was suspended and
replaced with a fixed exchange rate of nine kwacha to the dollar.
REUTER 

BRITISH, FRENCH MINISTERS DISCUSS PUBLIC SPENDING
    LONDON, March 26 - 
French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur discussed the need to control
public spending in talks here today with British Chancellor of the
Exchequer Nigel Lawson, a Treasury spokesman said. The spokesman said
the ministers reviewed their economies, and public spending, domestic
and European Community-wide. He declined to comment on whether the
subject of concerted action to shore up the dollar had arisen. The
U.S. Currency dipped sharply earlier this week after a month of
relative stability after an agreement by six major industrialised
nations in Paris on February 22 to stabilise their currencies. REUTER


U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - MINI-REFUNDING
    NEW YORK, March 23 - 
A hefty slice of new U.S. Treasury supply is not the most welcome
prospect for a slumbering credit market, but at least this week's
offerings should provide it with some focus, economists said. "Banks
and mutual funds have cash that should be put to work, so the auctions
should breathe some life into the market," said economists at Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets Inc. The Treasury will place a 25 billion dlr
package of two-year, four-year and seven-year notes on the sales block
this week. The "mini-refunding," which will raise 9.27 billion dlrs in
new cash, comprises 10 billion dlrs of two-year notes for auction on
Tuesday, 7.75 billion dlrs of four-year notes on Wednesday and 7.25
billion dlrs of seven-year notes on Thursday. The market also faces
the regular weekly three- and six-month bill auction today, amounting
to 12.8 billion dlrs. The mini-refunding does not come at a
particularly auspicious time for the market. Bond prices have been
drifting sideways in a narrow range against the backdrop of a cloudy
U.S. Economic outlook, diminished chances of a change in Federal
Reserve Board policy and a stable dollar. Moreover, the bond market's
inertia has compared unfavourably with the rash of activity taking
place in high-yield markets overseas, like the U.K., As well as in
U.S. Equities. But according to the Merrill Lynch economists, there
are signs the pall hanging over the U.S. Bond market is lifting a bit.
"Customer activity has been light, but all on the buy-side, and there
is a marked absence of selling," they said in a weekly report. Philip
Braverman of Irving Trust Securities Inc believes banks will snap up
the two- and four-year issues at this week's sales. "The banks are in
need of investments that provide earnings. Though the yield spread to
the cost of carrying these maturities has been wider, it is still
positive," he said in a weekly market review. But economists agreed
not even the auctions will generate enough impetus for a major move.
This will only come once the overseas markets have had their run.
"Based on last week's events, there is little to indicate that the
appetite for yield has begun to wane," said economists at Salomon
Brothers Inc. Indeed, talk persisted last week that Japanese investors
are planning to re-weight their portfolios in favour of the higher-
yielding markets at the start of Japan's new fiscal year on April 1.
And while traditionally the Japanese have not been big buyers of the
shorter-dated issues on offer at this week's U.S. Auctions, such
reports undermine market confidence. Even actions by the British,
Australian and Canadian monetary authorities to curb the rise of their
currencies should also enhance the attractiveness of their respective
bond markets, the Salomon Brothers' economists said. Meanwhile,
ecomomic releases are unlikely to enliven the U.S. Market unless they
deviate widely from expectations, economists said. This week's
economic calendar begins on Tuesday with February durable goods
orders. Economists expect a rebound from January's depressed levels.
Peter Greenbaum of Smith, Barney, Harris Upham and Co said several
areas, including transport equipment, should have bounced back. But a
decline in military capital goods will cap total new orders. He
forecasts a rise of two pct after January's 6.7 pct slump. Some other
economists foresee a gain as large as five pct. Friday's consumer
price report for February is expected to show an increase of about 0.3
pct after a 0.7 pct January gain. Economists said energy prices -- the
driving force behind the January rise -- rose more moderately last
month, while food prices declined. Meanwhile, economists warned that
the federal funds rate will be subject to volatility in the weeks
ahead due to the approach of quarter-end and the mid-April tax date.
Some economists expect the Fed to execute a bill pass this week
because its adding requirement increases sharply in the new statement
period beginning on Thursday. Fed funds traded at 6-1/16 pct late
Friday and are expected to open near that level. REUTER 

ARAB FOREX ASSOCIATION ELECTS NEW CHAIRMAN
    ABU DHABI, March 28 - 
The Inter-Arab Cambist Association (ICA) elected Abdullah al-Dakhil of
Kuwait's Burgan Bank its new chairman, succeeding Hani Ramadan of
Beirut Riyad Bank for a three-year term, ICA officials said The annual
meeting elected three Vice-Chairmen -- Ezzedine Saidane of Banque
Internationale Arabe de Tunis, Mohammed Osman of Societe Bancaire du
Liban and Walid Nasouli of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York.
Ibrahim Buhindi of the Saudi National Commercial Bank in Bahrain and
Imad Bata of Finance and Credit Corp of Jordan were elected Secretary
and Treasurer, respectively. REUTER 

U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SEES RATE STABILITY
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said the agreement among the industrial
countries reached in Paris last month should foster stability of
exchange rates at around current levels. In testimony before the House
Appropriations Committee, Baker outlined many of the measures taken
designed to achieve more balanced growth and a reduction of trade
imbalances during the Paris meeting. "These measures should also
foster greater stability of exchange rates around current levels," he
said. Baker reiterated that the ministers at the Paris meeting agreed
that their currencies were within ranges "broadly consistent with
underlying economic fundamentals and that further substantial exchange
rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment prospects." He added:
"In these circumstances, we agreed to cooperate closely to foster
stability of exchange rates around current levels." Reuter 

NO ZIMBABWE DOLLAR DEVALUATION - CENTRAL BANK
    HARARE, March 21 - 
Zimbabwe's Reserve Bank, the nation's central bank, has denied the
Zimbabwe dollar would be devalued. Bank Governor Kombo Moyana told The
Herald daily newspaper "unfortunate and completely unfounded
speculation that a depreciation of the Zimbabwe dollar was about to
occur" had aggravated a serious foreign exchange shortage. "During
February and the early part of March this (speculation) caused
importers to bring forward their payments and exporters to delay as
long as possible the inward remittance of export receipts, resulting
in a significant slowdown in net foreign exchange inflows," he added.
REUTER 

VOLCKER URGES GREATER EXCHANGE RATE STABILITY
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said international
policymakers should make improving the stability of exchange rates a
major priority. In testimony before a Senate Banking subcommittee,
Volcker said he does not have any specific proposals for improving
exchange rate stability, but thought it was worthy goal. "I do think
we ought to be thinking about and working toward greater exchange rate
stability," Volcker said. "I think that the objective of greater
exchange rate stability ought to loom larger among our various policy
priorities." Reuter 

JAPANESE SEEN LIGHTENING U.S. BOND HOLDINGS
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
The dollar's tumble to a record low of 144.70 yen in Tokyo today
motivated some major Japanese investors to lighten their U.S. Bond
inventory further and is expected to spur diversification into
investment assets including foreign and domestic shares, dealers said.
The key U.S. 7-1/2 pct Treasury bond due 2016 fell to a low of
96.08-12 in early Tokyo trade against the 98.05-06 New York finish,
then recovered to 96.20-22. Some trust bank pension fund acccounts and
investment trusts were seen selling several hundred million dollars on
the foreign exchange market here today, accentuating the unit's
tumble, securities house dealers said. They seem undecided on what to
do with the fresh yen cash positions resulting from their dollar sales
today, and are sidelined until the currency market stabilises and the
interest rates outlook clarifies, a Nikko Securities Co Ltd currency
trader said. The dollar's plunge and low yields on U.S. Bonds will
further promote diversification into other foreign investments, as
well as call back funds into the domestic bond and stock markets from
overseas bond markets, securities bond managers said. They said major
Japanese investors in the past two years are estimated to have held 50
to 80 pct of their foreign portfolios in U.S. Bonds but many have
lightened their U.S. Bond inventory to as low as 40 pct. Since late
last year, Japanese investors, seeking substantial liquidity and
attractive yields, have used fresh funds to buy mark and Canadian
dollar bonds and, after the Paris currency pact, actively bought
French franc bonds and gilts while gradually lightening U.S. Bond
inventories, the managers said. Dealers said funds tied up in foreign
assets had flowed into local bond and stock markets as well. The yield
of the key 5.1 pct 89th bond dropped to a record low of 4.080 pct
today from the 4.140 Saturday finish and compared with 4.25 pct on
three-month certificates of deposit. The key bond has fluctuated less
than five basis points for more than a month here, suggesting most
dealers could not satisfy their needs for capital gains, dealers said.
A market survey by Reuters showed some active accounts in U.S.
Treasuries are currently dealing on Tokyo's stock market. The stock
market's bullishness late last week was partly due to funds
transferred from U.S. Treasuries, dealers said. Japanese net purchases
of foreign securities in the first half of March fell an estimated one
billion dlrs compared with average monthly net purchases of 7.7
billion for the whole of 1986, Finance Ministry sources said. The
steep fall is due to Japanese investors' cool attitude towards U.S.
Bonds, which had amounted to more than 80 pct of total foreign
securities purchased, securities houses managers said. Foreign stock
buying in March is expected to exceed the record high of 1.5 billion
dlrs seen in December, they said. "Diversification of foreign
portfolios is underway and we have bought bonds in currencies such as
marks, the Canadian dollar, the ECU and French franc," a fund manager
at <Yasuda Trust and Banking Co Ltd> said. REUTER 

EC MINISTERS WILL DISCUSS STRENGTHENING EMS FLOAT
    BRUSSELS, April 3 - 
European Community finance ministers and central bankers meet in
Belgium this weekend to discuss strengthening Europe's joint currency
float amid continuing worries about turbulence on foreign exchanges.
Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskens, who will host the informal
talks, told Reuters the ministers and central bank chiefs would
discuss the situation on currency markets in the light of the February
agreement among leading industrialised countries to stabilise exchange
rates around present levels. In an interview, Eyskens said he felt the
Paris accord between the United States, Japan, West Germany, France,
Britain and Canada had proved itself "more or less workable." But
doubts over its effectiveness and durability have been growing since
fears of a trade war between the United States and Japan over computer
microchips pushed the dollar to a record low against the surging yen
early this week. The talks, at the Belgian resort of Knokke, are being
held to coordinate the EC's positions on monetary issues and Third
World debt ahead of the Spring meetings of the International Monetary
Fund and World Bank in Washington next week. The EC gathering begins
tonight with a dinner but the main discussions will take place
tomorrow. Continued international currency turbulence could undermine
plans for reinforcing the European Monetary System, the joint float
holding eight EC currencies within narrow fluctuation bands, which
will feature high on the weekend agenda. Eyskens has repeatedly said
that Europe needs a period of calm on world currency markets, and in
particular a more stable dollar, before it can set about strengthening
the EMS to make it more resilient against exchange rate swings. The
EMS has been taking a battering over the last year as the falling
dollar has sent funds surging into the dominant EMS currency, the West
German mark, forcing ministers to undertake two major realignments of
parities within nine months. In the interview, Eyskens made clear he
was hoping for a wide-ranging discussion on the future of the eight-
year-old EMS on the basis of proposals for bolstering it drawn up by
the EC's Monetary Committee and the Committee of Central Bank
Governors. The committees were asked to come up with the proposals
after the last reshuffle of EMS exchange rates in January. Eyskens
repeated calls for the European Currency Unit, the fledgling EC
currency at the core of the system, to take over the mark's dominant
role in the EMS - a proposal that has met with a cool response in West
Germany. He said EC Commission President Jacques Delors would report
to the meeting on problems raised by plans to liberalise capital
movements fully within the 12-nation bloc by 1992, such as the need
for harmonising taxes and banking controls. Eyskens said
liberalisation of capital movements without strengthening the EMS
would be an element of destabilisation in the Community. He said the
crucial issue in the debate was whether member states were willing to
push further towards the EC's goal of monetary integration on the
basis of an EMS that included management of exchange rates by some
kind of common institution, instead of by national central banks as at
present. Plans for the creation of such an institution, foreseen by
the EMS's founding fathers, have been thwarted by the reluctance of
some countries, notably West Germany, to gove up their sovereignty in
the monetary field. EMS development has also been held up by Britain's
refusal so far to join the system's core exchange rate mechanism.
REUTER 

EXCHANGE RATES ALMOST WITHIN G-6 LEVELS - SUMITA
    TOKYO, March 25 - 
Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said that current exchange rates
are almost within the levels agreed to by six major nations last month
in Paris. Asked whether a dollar/yen rate of 148 or 149 reflected
economic fundamentals, he said current rates almost reflect
fundamentals. Sumita told reporters major nations have cooperated to
bring about currency stability in line with the Paris agreement, which
stipulated that they would closely cooperate to that end. He repeated
the central bank will intervene if necessary, adding he did not think
a dollar free-fall was likely. But Sumita said he could not say
exactly what currency levels would be considered in line with
underlying economic fundamentals. In Paris on February 22, Britain,
Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate
to hold currencies around their then current levels. Sumita said he
could not find any specific reasons behind the fall of the dollar to a
record low against the yen yesterday. But he said the market rushed to
sell dollars as it nervously reacted to statements abroad and to
developments surrounding trade tensions. U.S. Treasury Secretary James
Baker said over the weekend that the Paris pact did not encompass
fixed tragets for the dollar. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton
Yeutter called U.S/Japan relations on certain key trade issues very
strained. The market reacted nervously because the dollar has been
moving narrowly against the yen since mid-January, Sumita said. He
added he does not expect the yen/dollar exchange rate to remain
unstable because the market is concerned about a sharp rise of the
yen. The Bank of Japan will keep a close watch on exchange rates in
line with the Paris accord, he added. REUTER 

CURRENCIES BETTER REFLECT FUNDAMENTALS - BAKER
    MIAMI, March 23 - 
Treasury Secertary James Baker said currencies were now within ranges
that better reflected economic fundamentals. In a speech to the annual
meeting of the Inter-American Development Bank, he said, "Excchange
have moved into ranges that better reflect economic fundamentals." He
noted that in particular that dollar has fallen from its high point in
early 1985 helping to moderate protectionist pressures in the U.S.
Reuter 

HUNGARY TO DEVALUE FORINT AGAINST WESTERN UNITS
    BUDAPEST, March 11 - 
Hungary is to devalue the forint by an average of eight pct against
Western currencies, the official news agency MTI said. MTI did not say
when the devaluation would become effective, but it expected new rates
to be announced later today. Hungary devalued the forint by a similar
amount last September 23. Western bankers say the forint is more
realistically valued than currencies of Hungary's COMECON allies.
REUTER 

BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE
    MADRID, March 27 - 
The Bank of Spain suspended its daily money market assistance obliging
borrowers to take funds from the second window, where on Wednesday
rates were raised to 16 pct compared with 14 pct for normal overnight
funds. Money market sources said in view of high borrower demand the
suspension was likely to remain in effect until April 3, the start of
the next 10-day accounting period for reserve requirements. The
suspension comes after the Bank yesterday gave 1,145 billion pesetas
assistance, a record high for this year. It said 90 billion pesetas
was provided at the second window. REUTER 

JAPAN SEEKS TO STRENGTHEN PARIS CURRENCY ACCORD
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
Japan will seek to strengthen the Paris accord on currency stability
at the meeting of the group of seven leading industrial nations
tomorrow, Japanese officials said. However, the officials travelling
with Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa and who asked not to be
identified, would not provide any details of how they wanted the
accord, which was signed by the six leading industrial democracies in
February, to be strengthened. Currency target zones, or reference
ranges, will not be discussed at the G-7 meeting which is scheduled
for tomorrow, the Japanese officials said. The meeting, which is being
held in conjunction with this week's International Monetary Fund/World
Bank sessions, will reaffirm the currency pact and there is no need
for changing the language used in the Paris accord, the officials
said. Miyazawa met with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker early in
this afternoon and discussed the dollar/yen exchange rates, officials
said, but they declined to disclosed the details of that discussion.
The Japanese officials also declined to detail what Miyazawa and Baker
discussed on the subject of greater joint intervention in currency
markets to stabilize the dollar or on independent American
intervention. The officials said such a money market action to
stabilize the dollar is not only for the benefit of Japan, which is
suffering from a sharp appreciation in its currency, but also for the
benefit of the United States as well. As to U.S. urgings for Japan to
take steps to boost its domestic demand to reduce its trade surplus,
Japan will explain economic measures to the G-7, the officials said.
However, Miyazawa failed to outline the size of the Japanese economic
package in his meeting with Baker today because the Japanese 1987/88
budget has not been authorized by the Diet, or parliament, despite the
new fiscal year which started April one, the officials said. Japan's
ruling liberal democratic party revealed its own economic package
today calling for more than 5,000 billion yen in additional spending.
Reuter 

GERMAN BANKING AUTHORITIES WEIGH SWAP REGULATIONS
    FRANKFURT, March 16 - 
German banking authorities are weighing rules for banks' off-balance
sheet activities in an attempt to cope with the growing volume of
sophisticated capital market instruments, banking sources said.
Interest rate and currency swaps and currency options are under
closest scrutiny, and if revisions are made they may resemble
regulation jointly proposed by the U.S. And U.K. To Japan. Juergen
Becker, director of the Bundesbank's division of banking law and
credit supervision, said the U.S.-British proposals were interesting,
but declined to elaborate. But banking sources said West Germany was
more likely to produce its own conclusions than to adopt foreign
proposals. "There is no formal plan yet, but talks are in the latter
stages," one representative of the German Banking Association in
Cologne said. Bankers expect rule changes this year. All alterations
must be approved by the Bundesbank, West Germany's four major banking
associations and the Federal Banking Supervisory Office. Talks have
been slowed by the fact that fundamental changes would require a
revision of Germany's credit law, which has been in effect since 1934.
Authorities favour reinterpreting the credit law to fit present
circumstances in order to avoid the long parliamentary political
process of changing it, banking sources said. Since the beginning of
1984 the banking law has limited banks' lending to 18 times
shareholders' equity plus reserves, on a consolidated basis. But
lending ratios do not extend to several newer instruments such as spot
and forward currency contracts, currency and interest swaps,
commercial paper programs, currency options, interest rate futures in
foreign currencies and various innovative types of interest rate
hedges. The sources said the main value of the U.S.-U.K. Proposals lay
in differentiating between different types of risk factor, and, for
instance, in placing greater weight on currency swaps than interest
swaps. But even if German banking authorities agree with some of the
assessments of swaps, they disagree on how to find balance sheet
equivalents for the risk. U.S.-British proposals include a complicated
series of formulae for assessing the stream of payments involved in
swaps, whose ultimate risk is borne by the financial intermediary,
especially when counterparties remain anonymous. This is the so-called
market-to-market value. But German authorities are likely to consider
this much too complex and to base their evaluation instead on a
schedule of lending ratings assigned according to the creditworthiness
of the borrowers involved, the sources said. The weightings, also
likely if lending ratios are extended to include banks' securities
portfolios, are zero for public authorities, 20 pct for domestic
banks, 50 pct for foreign banks and 100 pct for other foreign and non-
bank borrowers. A further complication is that the more flexible
definitions of equity allowed in the U.S. And the U.K. May put German
banks at a competitive disadvantage, the sources said. Stricter
definitions here also mean the use of a version of the U.S.-U.K.
Proposals could far exceed the intent of the U.S. And British
authorities, the sources said. One specialist for Dresdner Bank AG
said a long-dated foreign exchange forward transaction could, for
instance, be brought under the same rule as a cross-currency swap,
despite the fact that the risk may be entirely different. How new
regulations will affect foreign banks here was uncertain. Many have
converted to full subsidiary status and applied for a full banking
licence over the last two years in order to lead-manage mark
eurobonds. But as their equity capital is fairly small, tight lending
ratios will severely hamper foreign banks' freedom of movement,
particularly in the growing business of currency swaps, if they are
required to include more transactions in the balance sheet, the
sources added. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP OF 240 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 11 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with unspecified
late assistance of around 240 mln stg. This brings its total
assistance on the day to 346 mln stg compared with a liquidity
shortfall it estimated at a revised 250 mln stg. Overnight interbank
sterling was being offered at eight pct shortly after the Bank's
announcement. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 265 MLN STG ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 27 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with 265 mln stg
in assistance this morning. This compares with the bank's estimate of
the shortage in the system of 750 mln stg, earlier revised up from 700
mln. The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising 119 mln
stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 144 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct
and two mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET LIQUIDITY POSITION EXPECTED FLAT
    LONDON, March 26 - 
The Bank of England said it has forecast a flat position in the money
market today. Among the main factors, maturing assistance and take-up
of treasury bills will drain 545 mln stg and a rise in note
circulation 35 mln stg but the outflow will be offset by 490 mln stg
exchequer transactions and bankers balances above target 70 mln.
REUTER 

Current exchange rates almost within levels agreed by major nations - Sumita




JAPAN CAREFULLY CONSIDERING MONEY POLICY - SUMITA
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said the central bank will
carefully consider its monetary policy in light of the recent sharp
fall of the dollar. Asked if the Bank of Japan will consider a further
cut in its discount rate, he said he now thinks the bank will have to
carefully consider its future money policy. He told a Lower House
Budget Committee in Parliament that credit conditions have been eased
by the five discount rate cuts by Japan since the beginning of last
year. Japan must now be especially careful about a flare-up in
inflation, with money supply growth accelerating, he said. Sumita said
the central bank would continue to make a judgement on monetary
policies while watching consumer prices, exchange rates and economic
and financial conditions both in and outside Japan. Asked if the
September 1985 Plaza agreement was a failure because the dollar had
fallen too far, Sumita said he still thought the pact was a good one
in the sense that it had corrected the overvaluation of the dollar.
But the Plaza accord did not set any target for the dollar's fall, he
said. The dollar's steep fall stems from the market's belief that the
trade imbalance will continue to expand, he said. Reuter 

Sumita says major nations will continue to cooperate to stabilize currencies




U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN
    LONDON, March 17 - 
The Bank of England said it had revised its forecast of the shortage
in the money market today down to 400 mln stg from 450 mln stg. REUTER


TOKYO - Bank of Japan buys small amount of dollars, dealers said




TREASURY'S BAKER SUPPORTS FED MONETARY POLICY
    WASHINGTON, March 20 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said in a newspaper interview that he
supports the current course of Federal Reserve Board monetary policy.
"The course of Fed policy is quite adequate as far as we are
concerned," Baker said in an interview with the New York Times. In the
interview, Baker declined to comment about the recent Paris accord
among the six leading industrialized democracies when he was asked why
the U.S. agreed to stabilize the dollar at current levels when the
trade deficit hit a record level last year. Baker said in the
newspaper interview that it was "a subject I prefer not to talk
about." He said that if he explained why the U.S. agreed to help
maintain the dollar at current levels "I would of necessity end up
getting into some of the private agreements that support such and
agreement" on the dollar. Baker was optimistic about Brazil, which has
stopped interest payments on much of its outstanding debt with foreign
commercial banks. "They are, after all, paying on time all the debt
service and principal on their official debts, having just rescheduled
with the Paris Club," Baker said in the newspaper interview. Baker
said that Brazilian repreentatives had explained they intented to pay
their commercial bank debts in full but needed time. Reuter 

CALL MONEY PRESSURE FROM LARGE GERMAN BANKS
    FRANKFURT, March 31 - 
One or two large West German banks effectively drained the domestic
money market of liquidity at the end of the month in order to achieve
higher rates from their overnight deposits, money dealers said. As a
result, call money soared in active trading to around the Lombard rate
of five pct from 3.70/80 pct yesterday as banks found themselves short
of minimum reserve funds. Bundesbank figures showed that banks held an
average daily 51 billion marks in interest-free minimum reserve assets
at the central bank over the first 29 days of the month. Though this
was above the March requirement of 50.7 billion, actual holdings at
the weekend were 44.2 billion. To meet the daily average, dealers
said, banks must raise holdings by two billion marks to 46.3 billion
today and tomorrow. But liquidity was tight in early business because
banks excessively took up the Bundesbank's offer for sale of Treasury
bills on Friday. This provides a rate of 3.50 pct for three-day
deposits and is an effective floor to the market. Though some
liquidity, from bills bought on Thursday, flowed back into the market
today, the bulk would not return until tomorrow, the start of the new
month, dealers said. Dealers said the large banks, which they did not
name, commanded short-term money requirements of as much as five
billion marks or so. With a knowledge of their own needs until the end
of the month, the banks bought excessive amounts of treasury bills,
draining liquidity for three days. When other banks sought funds,
rates rose and large banks were able to place excess funds on deposit
at a considerably higher average return. One senior dealer said the
Bundesbank, with advanced knowledge of the market's needs, should have
curtailed its sales of treasury bills on Friday. Though dealers only
late in the day learn of the total minimum reserve holdings of the
previous day, the Bundesbank has an immediate overview of the
situation and could anticipate the strength of demand for funds the
following day, he said. "(Bundesbank dealers) could easily have said
we are not selling any treasury bills or we're not selling them in
this amount," he said. "If the Bundesbank wants to finely steer the
market then they should avoid such excesses. Tomorrow it will be
different. Call money will fall back to 4.0 pct or so." But the
Bundesbank would not approve of the sharp jump in rates, given the
delicate state of currency markets. International central banks have
been at pains to prevent a dollar fall against major currencies,
including the mark. Dealers said a rise in call money gives the mark a
firmer undertone, contributing to downward pressure on the dollar.
"The whole tender policy is to have a call money of between three and
four pct. In that case the excesses as we have today cannot be very
popular," the senior dealer said. Dealers said the large banks
probably achieved average rates of return on their excess funds of
between 3.75 pct or four pct. This is a higher return than they would
have earned without the excessive draining through the treasury bill
mechanism. Because of the currency situation and the wage negotiations
between Germany's major employers and the unions, the Bundesbank would
be very unlikely to make any changes to monetary policy at its council
meeting on Thursday, they said. Bundesbank figures showed that banks
fell back on the Lombard emergency funding facility to draw down 1.5
billion marks yesterday as rates began to tighten in late business.
REUTER 

MIYAZAWA SAYS PARIS ACCORD HELPING STABILISE RATES
    TOKYO, March 10 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord has
contributed to the stability of exchange rates. Miyazawa told a press
conference the agreement reached last month in Paris by six major
industrial nations to cooperate in bringing about currency stability
has prevented speculative concerns from being active in money centres.
The decision in Paris is being understood by the market, he said. The
yen-dollar exchange rate has been moving in a narrow range since
finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West
Germany reached the accord. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 16 MLN STG ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 17 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 16 mln
stg help in the afternoon session. The Bank did not operate in the
market in the morning and earlier revised its estimate of the shortage
in the system today down to 400 mln stg from 450 mln. The central bank
purchased bills outright in band one at 10-3/8 pct comprising two mln
stg of local authority bills and 14 mln stg of bank bills. REUTER 

U.S. CREDIT MARKETS END UNDER EXTREME PRESSURE
    NEW YORK, March 30 - 
The U.S. credit market ended under extreme pressure as the dollar's
continued slide on the currency markets triggered an avalanche of U.S.
securities sales, pushing prices to 1987 lows, dealers and analysts
said. "This was a bloodbath," said one money market economist. "We've
been trading in a state of total panic at times today," said another.
Mirroring the dollar's fall to a 40-year low against the yen, the key
7-1/2 pct 30-year Treasury bond price fell nearly two points to close
at 96-7/32, compared with 98-5/32 on Friday. The corresponding yield
jumped to 7.83 pct from 7.66. Reuter 

FED MAY SUPPLY RESERVES IN THE MONEY MARKETS
    NEW YORK, March 17 - 
There is a slightly better than even chance that the Federal Reserve
will enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary
reserves, economists said. They said the Fed would supply the reserves
indirectly via around 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase
agreements. Federal funds, which averaged 6.25 pct yesterday, opened
at 6-1/16 pct and moved in a narrow range between there and six pct in
early trading. Reuter 

TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS PACT TO FOSTER STABLE CURRENCIES




GULF BOND, STOCK MARKETS LAG BEHIND, GIB SAYS
    BAHRAIN, March 1 - 
Gulf money markets have grown reasonably well during the past decade,
but bond and stock markets remain to a large extent fragmented and lag
behind, <Gulf International Bank BSC> (GIB) said. The bank's economist
Henry Azzam said in a review of Gulf capital markets that investors
have to relinquish traditional investment vehicles such as real
estate, foreign currency bank accounts and precious metals. "Greater
financial sophistication is needed coupled with more diversified
capital market instruments and a change in the disclosure requirements
on company accounts," he said. The GIB study reviewed capital markets
under three categories -- money markets, stock and bond markets. Azzam
said Gulf states had been making greater use of short-term money
market instruments and banks in the region had floated various
euronotes and underwriting facilities. "Nevertheless, bond and stock
markets remain, to a large extent, fragmented and lagging behind," he
said. Most debt in the region is still raised by syndicated loans and
bank facilities and very few companies had made use of stock or bond
issues. Only Kuwait has an official stock exchange, while other Gulf
nations have yet to establish exchanges. But with dwindling financial
surpluses in the Gulf, governments are actively pursuing ways to
develop capital markets and set up domestic stock exchanges, Azzam
said. He said recession stemming from sliding oil prices had "clearly
had a negative impact on the development of capital markets in the
region." In addition, family firms are reluctant to go public,
financial awareness among investors is still lacking and investment
analysis and corporate reporting standards lack depth. A sharp fall in
share prices in the early 1980s prompted investors to hold on to
shares hoping for an eventual recovery. Azzam said the absence of
proper commercial law in some Gulf countries and authorities' apparent
reluctance to adopt financial innovations had also hampered capital
markets. He called for clearly defined laws governing incorporation of
joint stock companies and the flotation of debt instruments. Azzam
said capital market instruments should be made available to all
citizens and institutions of Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states --
Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates (UAE). Some moves had been taken in this direction, with
Bahrain allowing GCC nationals to own up to 25 pct of locally
incorporated companies. Azzam said Gulf money markets had received
greater depth from the introduction of treasury bill offerings in
Bahrain and the expansion of securities repurchase regulations in
Saudi Arabia. But he added there is "no bond market to speak of" in
Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman or the UAE, with the last Saudi riyal
denominated bond issued in 1978. While Bahrain plans an official stock
exchange and trading in Saudi Arabia has picked up, establishment of
formal exchanges in Qatar, Oman and the UAE does not appear imminent,
Azzam said. REUTER 

BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS AT PARIS FIXING - DEALERS




U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 31 - 
The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers
from the discount houses after forecasting a very large shortage of
around 1.75 billion stg in the money market today. MORE 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 284 MLN STG HELP
    LONDON, April 7 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with a further
284 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the bank's
total help so far today to 508 mln stg and compares with its revised
estimate of a 900 mln stg shortage in the system which it earlier
revised up from 850 mln. The central bank made outright purchases of
bank bills comprising 100 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 56 mln stg
in band two at 9-13/16 pct, 112 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and
16 mln stg in band four at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER 

TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS COOPERATION WORKING
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said that the agreement in Paris to
cooperate in exchange rate changes showed that the process of
coordination agreed to at the Tokyo summit was working. He told the
House Appropriations Committee the meeting "demonstrated that the
process is working." He noted that the industrial surplus countries
committed themselves to strengthen their growth prospects while the
deficit countries agreed to reduce their domestic imbalances. Baker
said that for its part, Japan announced a cut in its discount rate to
2.5 pct and committed itself to prepare a comprehensive economic
program to stimulate domestic demand after the Diet completes action
on the current budget. He said the United States must also do its
share pressing for reductions in the federal budget deficit through
spending cuts. "And we must continue to oppose protectionist
pressures," he added. Reuter 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 700 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 27 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 700 mln stg
in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity,
bills maturing in official hands will drain some 501 mln stg while a
rise in note circulation and bankers' balances below target will take
out around 285 mln stg and 45 mln stg respectively. Partly offsetting
these outflows, exchequer transactions will add some 120 mln stg to
the system today. REUTER 

BANGEMANN CALLS FOR CURRENCY CALM
    HANOVER, March 31 - 
West German Economics Minister Martin Bangemann urged a halt to the
talking down of the dollar by both official and private institutions
in the U.S., Saying calm was needed on the foreign exchanges. Speaking
at the opening of the 40th Hanover Industry Fair, Bangemann said
radical changes in foreign exchange parities had left their mark on
exports and investments. He added that without these external
difficulties, West Germany's economy would have grown by 3.5 pct last
year instead of the 2.5 pct reported. Bangemann said he could not deny
that the economic climate in West Germany had cooled, but he stressed
the country was not in a downtrend. The minister also criticised state
subsidies, which he said mainly favoured large companies and created a
tax burden for smaller and medium sized firms. Bangemann referred
specifically to subsidies in the steel industry, which he said had to
be fought with all legal means when they did not correspond to
European Community guidelines on grants. He added that in light of the
declining demand for steel capacities had to be adjusted, saying the
Bonn government would not successfully be able to stand in the way of
any change in this industry. Bangemann also spoke out against
protectionism and called for more competition, citing as an example
the Federal Post Office. The Post Office enjoys a monopoly in West
Germany, especially as far as deciding who is able to provide
telecommunications equipment. REUTER 

CHINA ALLOWS NATIONWIDE FOREIGN EXCHANGE SAVING
    PEKING, March 11 - 
People throughout China can now open foreign exchange accounts at the
Bank of China, the official Shenzhen Economic Zone Daily said.
Previously only residents of Guangdong and Fujian provinces could do
this. The paper also said the minimum for opening a fixed deposit
account had been cut to 50 yuan equivalent, from 150 yuan. The minimum
for a current account is 20 yuan equivalent. The paper said depositors
could now withdraw all or part of their account, subject to a branch's
reserves, instead of only a fixed amount as previously. The paper said
deposits may now be opened in French francs as well as the already
available U.S. Dollar, Hong Kong dollar, sterling, yen and marks. Bank
of China branches in Hainan island also accept deposits in Singapore
dollars, and those in Wenzhou, Zhejiang province, accept deposits in
Dutch guilders, the paper said. It gave no further details. REUTER 

BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED AT 7-3/4 PCT - OFFICIAL




U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 25 MLN STG LATE HELP
    LONDON, March 26 - 
The Bank of England said it provided about 25 mln stg in late help to
the money market, bringing the total assistance today to 266 mln stg.
This compares with the bank's revised estimate of a 350 mln stg money
market shortfall. REUTER 

MAJOR NATIONS MUST ACT ON CURRENCIES - MIYAZAWA
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the time has come for major
industrialised nations to take action on exchange rates in line with
their agreement last month in Paris. In Paris, Britain, Canada,
France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to coooperate to hold
currency rates around their then current levels. Miyazawa would not
say what specific measures major nations would take, but told
reporters the measures had been discussed in Paris. The dollar fell to
a record low against the yen this morning, piercing the 150 yen
barrier. REUTER 

SUDAN REJECTS IMF DEMAND FOR DEVALUATION
    CAIRO, March 24 - 
Sudan has rejected a demand by the International Monetary Fund for a
currency devaluation because such a move would have a negative impact
on its economy, the official Sudan News Agency (SUNA) reported.
Finance Minister Beshir Omer, quoted by SUNA, said his government also
rejected an IMF demand to lift state subsidies on basic consumer
goods. SUNA, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, said
Omer made the remarks after a meeting in Khartoum yesterday with IMF
envoy Abdel-Shakour Shaalan. Sudan, burdened by a foreign debt of 10.6
billion dlrs, is some 500 mln dlrs in arrears to the IMF, which
declared it ineligible for fresh loans in February last year. In
February 1985, Sudan announced a 48 pct devaluation of its pound
against the dollar, adjusting the official exchange rate to 2.5 pounds
to the U.S. Currency. Since then, it has resisted pressure from main
creditors for more currency adjustments, arguing that past
devaluations had failed to boost exports but raised local consumer
prices. Sudan also has an incentive rate of four pounds to the dollar
for foreign visitors and remittances by expatriate workers. Dealers in
Khartoum's thriving black market said the dollar was sold at 5.5
pounds today. With stringent import regulations and the government
increasingly short of foreign currency, black market dollars are used
to finance smuggled imports from neighbouring countries, mainly Egypt,
Kenya, Ethiopia and Zaire. Western diplomats in Khartoum say the
meetings between IMF and Sudanese government officials do not amount
to formal talks, but rather an effort by the IMF to monitor Sudan's
economic performance. The diplomats said Sudan hoped a planned four-
year economic recovery program would be acceptable to the IMF as a
serious attempt to tackle the country's economic troubles and persuade
its Gulf Arab creditors to pay the IMF arrears. This, they said, could
provide Sudan with a clean bill of health from the IMF that it could
take to Western government creditors, grouped informally in the so-
called Paris Club, to reschedule debt payments. Twenty-three pct of
Sudan's total foreign debt is owed to members of the Paris Club, the
diplomats said. Sudan's Finance Minister said last month the country's
IMF representative had told him the fund's executive board was "very
pleased with the 18.5 mln dlrs arrears we have paid in the past couple
of months." The representative, Omer Said, said IMF Managing Director
Michel Camdessus said he would ask Saudi Arabia, to which Sudan owes
about 1.4 billion dlrs, to help Khartoum to pay more. Sudan has an
annual debt liability of nearly 900 mln dlrs but set aside only some
200 mln dlrs to service debts in the fiscal year ending next June 30.
REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 181 MLN STG ASSISTANCE
    LONDON, March 19 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with 181 mln stg
in assistance this morning. This compares with the Bank's revised
shortage forecast of around 400 mln stg. The central bank purchased
bank bills outright at the new dealing rates established yesterday.
These comprised 65 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 114 mln stg in
band two at 9-13/16 pct and two mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct.
REUTER 

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - EMS MARKS EIGHTH BIRTHDAY
    BRUSSELS, March 13 - 
The European Monetary System marks its eighth anniversary still
vulnerable to turmoil in world money markets despite creating an
island of currency rate stability in Europe, economists say. But many
economists say the system, which holds eight European Community
currencies within narrow fluctuation bands, remains in its infancy.
Its new currency, the European Currency Unit (Ecu), has been a runaway
success with investors and borrowers alike seeking an alternative to
the volatile dollar. And on Wednesday, the long term vision of the Ecu
as Europe's common currency took a step nearer to becoming reality
when Belgium minted the world's first Ecu coin. But economists say
members such as West Germany have so far blocked a second stage of
development envisaged by the system's founding fathers, ex-West German
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and former French President Valery Giscard
d'Estaing. Under this phase, originally due to have started two years
after the EMS was set up, decision-making was to have been transferred
from national governments and central banks to an autonomous European
Monetary Fund. But members have jealously guarded their sovereignty in
economic and monetary matters. "The basic problem of the EMS is that
governments are not prepared to make the quantum leap to a situation
where certain decisions are taken in common," said one economist who
has closely watched the system's development. The result is that the
EC is often divided over policy on third currencies, accentuating what
the economists say is the system's greatest weakness, its
vulnerability to a weak dollar. Over the past 18 months, as the U.S.
Dollar plunged and investors moved into strong currencies, the
resulting sharp rise of the West German mark severely strained the
system. MORE As the mark soared against the dollar, it also rose
against EMS currencies less favoured by international investors. And
as West Germany last year refused to give in pressure from several EC
partners and the United States to cut interest rates to slow the
mark's rise, the EMS had to be realigned twice to ease financial and
trade strains within the community. Two months ago the mark and the
Dutch guilder were revalued by three pct and the Belgian and
Luxembourg francs by two pct against other currencies in the system --
the French franc, Italian lira, the Irish punt and Danish crown.
Another frustration has been Britain's failure to lend the EMS
political support by keeping the pound, still a major world currency,
outside the system. No change in the British government's attitude is
expected before the country's next general elections, due by mid-1988.
Meanwhile, the system's last realignment, the 11th since it was set
up, prompted European finance ministers to ask the EC's highly-
secretive Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governors
to come up with suggestions for reinforcing it. Their ideas are due to
be unveiled when finance ministers hold an informal meeting in Belgium
early next month. But economists said the proposals are unlikely to
involve more than tinkering with technical details. They are sceptical
about the chances for any fundamental change. "Technical measures
won't be enough to protect the EMS against external factors such as
dollar weakness. For that we must take the step forward to the
institutional level," said Leo de Corel of Kredietbank's economic
research department. Economists say the system's fortunes now will
depend largely on the success of an agreement last month among major
industrial nations to stabilise exchange rates. If the dollar resumes
its slide the EMS could be in for more turbulence, they predict.
REUTER 

NIGERIA CHANGES AUCTION RULES TO DEFEND NAIRA
    LAGOS, March 23 - 
Nigeria's Central Bank has changed the rules governing its foreign
exchange auctions in what analysts see as a means of defending the
naira currency, which has depreciated steadily. The bank said in a
statement that from April 2, banks bidding for foreign exchange would
have to pay at the rate they offered and not, as presently, at the
rate of the lowest successful bid made at the auction. This should
discourage banks from bidding high to ensure that they were successful
while paying the lower "marginal" rate, analysts said. The Central
Bank also announced the auctions would be fortnightly, not weekly,
beginning on April 2. Reuter 

CURRENCY FUTURES CLIMB LIKELY TO BE CHECKED
    CHICAGO, March 31 - 
The surge in currency futures since Friday on the heels of the Reagan
administration's proposed tariffs on Japanese imports is likely to be
curtailed in the coming week, financial analysts said. "The market is
taking a breather now, and I would expect it to last a little longer,"
said Craig Sloane, a currency analyst with Smith Barney, Harris, Upham
and Co. Profit-taking, which robbed the currency futures of some
momentum today, is likely to continue, he said. Central banks are
likely to play a role in halting the advance in currencies through
intervention, the analysts said, even though the dollar fell to a
40-year low against the Japanese yen on Monday despite Bank of Japan
intervention. Treasury Secretary James Baker's comments that the G-6
nations remain committed to the Paris accord, coupled with his refusal
to give any targets for exchange rates, provided a note of stability
to the market Tuesday, the analysts said. Furthermore, Merrill Lynch
Economics analyst David Horner said G-6 central banks haven't yet
shown the full force of their commitment to the Paris accord. "I'm
among those who believe the G-6 have a plan behind the scenes," Horner
said. Horner said more forceful central bank intervention will firm
the dollar and cap the rise in currency futures. "Coordinated,
punishing intervention" by the central banks -- in contrast to the
recent rolling intervention which has only smoothed out the market --
is in the offing, according to Horner. "I think we're near the top of
the range in the Europeans (currencies)," he said. On the other hand,
the upside target for the yen, which set a new contract high today at
0.006916 in the June contract, is at 0.007050, Horner said. Still,
other analysts believe currency futures have yet to peak. "The basic
trend in the currencies is higher," said Anne Parker Mills, currency
analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. "The market wants to take
the dollar lower." Uncertainty over central bank action and
nervousness over a G-5 meeting next week in advance of a meeting of
the International Monetary Fund could make for choppy price activity
the remainder of the week, Mills said. In addition, although the
market shrugged off relatively healthy gains in February U.S. leading
economic indicators and factory orders Tuesday, economic data could
play a larger role in coming sessions, the analysts said. Friday's
employment statistics in particular will be closely watched, Sloane
said, adding that a forecast rise of 250,000 in non-farm payroll jobs
should underpin the dollar. Reuter 

U.K. PROFITTED FROM AUTUMN INTERVENTION - LAWSON
    LONDON, March 23 - 
Britain has reaped profits by using a stronger pound to buy back
dollars used by the government last autumn to support sterling during
a currency crisis, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said. He
said in a parliamentary debate, "I can now tell the House (of Commons)
that the dollars that were sold from the reserves in September and
October (1986) have subsequently all been repurchased - at a profit of
some tens of millions of pounds." Hindsight had proved him right to
resist market pressures then for a two percentage point interest rate
rise, he said. The increase in base rates was instead limited then to
one point. During a debate on the 1987/88 British budget which Lawson
unveiled last week, he said that "during the period of foreign
exchange market turbulence which followed the somewhat inconclusive
Group of Five and Group of Seven meetings at the end of September, I
authorised the Bank of England to intervene unusually heavily in order
to buy breathing space that would enable me to confine the interest
rate rise to one pct rather than the two pct the market was then
pressing for." He said that that one percentage point increase,
effected in October 1986, had been reversed by this month's two half
point cuts in banks' base lending rates. They are now at 10 pct.
Treasury figures show that the underlying change in British reserves -
seen as a guide to possible Bank of England intervention on foreign
exchange markets - suggest that the authorities sold around 1.0
billion dlrs during September and October 1986, government sources
said. Reuter 

FED SAYS IT SETS THREE-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS




U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - CAUTIOUS TRADING
    NEW YORK, April 6 - 
U.S. Bond trading is likely to remain cautious in the near term with a
possible downward price bias as market participants focus on trends in
the dollar, the economy and Federal Reserve policy, economists said.
Most expect the economy to continue showing modest gains, that the
dollar has more room to fall and that the Fed will keep policy
essentially steady, perhaps for several months. Until trends are
clearer, "the market can only attempt to to establish and hold a new
trading range at higher interest rates," said economists at Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets. Merrill Lynch economists Raymond Stone and Ward
McCarthy said that while the fundamentals generally bode for a healthy
investment climate, the market will have no confidence in this
environment until there is illumination of and confidence in U.S.
Dollar/trade policy. Salomon Brothers' Henry Kaufman said the bond
market, highly sensitized to dollar movements, could be encouraged if
currency markets seem to be stabilizing or if U.S. And overseas
economic growth is perceived as slowing sharply. "The crucial
question, however, is how soon either of these developments is likely
to occur," Kaufman said. "Market uncertainties and the erosion of
portfolio manager confidence could continue portfolio selling pressure
a while longer," said Philip Braverman, chief economist at Irving
Securities Corp. However, Braverman said that, "from a longer term
perspective, current (bond) prices provide a buying opportunity."
Despite a nearly one-point bond price rebound Friday on unexpectedly
weak March employment data, key 30-year Treasury bonds lost 2-1/4
points in price for the week as a whole and Thursday's 7.93 pct
closing yield was a 1987 high. Braverman said historical evidence
suggests that a long bond yield in the 7.93 pct area provides a basis
for optimism. Bonds closed at 7.86 pct on Friday. The Irving economist
noted that three times last year, in a similar "paroxysm of
pessimism," the key bonds reached a similar closing yield high. Within
three to six weeks in each instance, however, Braverman said bond
prices recovered to bring the yield down sharply by 63 to 82 basis
points. Mitchell Held of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co Inc said
that many portfolio managers now believe yields could approach nine
pct by midyear, which he considers unlikely. Held said that, since
late 1986, Smith Barney analysts have spoken about the risk that
interest rates could move higher and they continue to believe that an
upward bias is likely to persist over the next few months. Held said
that in conversations with portfolio managers last week there appeared
to be increasing belief that the rate rise had just begun and that
yields could approach nine pct by midyear. Naturally, that would mean
a sharp bond price fall. "Yields could rise further over the next few
months, but the rise should be less than the 65 basis point rise we've
seen since the start of the year," Held said. Most expect Fed policy
to be neutral for bonds near term. "The Fed is currently frozen into a
fixed stance," said economists at Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc. They
said the Fed cannot tighten policy and push up interest rates as might
be appropriate to stabilize the dollar and head off renewed
inflationary psychology. That might harm the fragile U.S. Economic
expansion. The Lanston economists said, "The Fed cannot ease its
policy stance to both foster more rapid economic growth and calm
domestic and Third World debt jitters without the threat of causing a
further decline in the dollar." Minutes of February's Federal Open
Market Committee (FOMC) meeting released Friday showed that while the
FOMC left policy unchanged it was more inclined to firm rather than
ease policy later if conditions in the economy, foreign exchange or
credit markets warranted a policy shift. However, economists generally
believe that continued fairly sluggish U.S. Economic growth and the
financial strains on U.S. Banks resulting from their problem loans to
developing countries rule out any Fed policy firming. There is broad
agreement among economists that the FOMC at last Tuesday's meeting
also left Fed policy unchanged. This week's U.S. Economic data are
expected to have little impact. February consumer instalment credit
numbers are due on Wednesday, with March producer price data out
Friday. There may be mild relief in some quarters that the U.S.
Purchasing Managers Composite Index, a closely-watched economic
indicator, rose only to 53.9 pct in March from 51.9 pct. A Friday
rumor had put the number far higher. The index's first quarter average
also was 53.9 pct, translating into real GNP growth of about three pct
if continued through 1987. Federal funds traded at 5-15/16 pct late
Friday and are expected to open about there today with no Fed action
seen. REUTER 

SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central
bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange
rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial
nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including
market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris
agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France,
Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising
exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued
after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40.
"It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of
floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150
yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he
said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then
were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and
further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment
prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said. REUTER 

FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES
    NEW YORK, March 11 - 
The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government
securities market to add temporary reserves via customer or system
repurchase agreements, economists said. Most economists said the Fed
will inject reserves indirectly via customer repurchases, but they
added that the Fed might opt for a direct injection of reserves via
overnight system repurchases. Federal funds opened at 6-3/8 pct and
eased to 6-5/16 pct in early trading. Funds averaged 6.29 pct
yesterday. Reuter 

MAJOR NATIONS MUST ACT ON CURRENCIES - MIYAZAWA
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the time has come for major
industrialised nations to take action on exchange rates in line with
their agreement last month in Paris. In Paris, Britain, Canada,
France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to coooperate to hold
currency rates around their then current levels. Miyazawa would not
say what specific measures major nations would take, but told
reporters the measures had been discussed in Paris. The dollar fell to
a record low against the yen this morning, piercing the 150 yen
barrier. Asked if major nations were now negotiating on what measures
to take, Miyazawa said they were not as measures had already been
agreed in Paris. REUTER 

STOLTENBERG SAYS PARIS ACCORD POLICY TO CONTINUE
    BONN, April 3 - 
West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said the currency
agreement reached in Paris in February had been successful and would
be continued. Stoltenberg told journalists before he attends next
week's International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington that: "The
... Strategy to stabilise currencies around current levels has proven
its worth and will also determine future developments." Stoltenberg
declined to comment specifically on what he would consider to be an
undervalued dollar but said a dollar around 1.80 marks created
problems for West Germany's exports. Stoltenberg said studies by
international organisations had made it clear that especially in the
U.S. And in Japan major efforts remained necessary to support
adjustments in foreign trade balances via necessary corrections to
economic policy. "No-one would benefit if, after years of over-
valuation, the U.S. Dollar fell into the other extreme, that is,
strong under-valuation," he said. Stoltenberg said West Germany had a
keen interest in a swift agreement between the U.S. And Japan
concerning the current trade dispute over semi-conductors. Asked
whether he believed the markets would test the Paris currency accord,
Stoltenberg did not comment specifically but noted that much of what
had been discussed in Paris had not been published. The Paris
declaration did not state the levels at which central banks of the
major industrialised countries would intervene. Stoltenberg said that
everything had been carefully considered. He said he had nothing
further to add. Stoltenberg also appeared to suggest that West Germany
was now no longer under any pressure from the U.S. Government to
stimulate its economy. He declined to respond specifically to a
question on this subject but said, "You must attach particular
importance to the consensus which was reached in Paris." The minister
nevertheless added that he would make clear during his trip to
Washington that West Germany's nominal trade figures gave a false
impression about actual trade flows. Stoltenberg noted that in 1986
Bonn's exports fell by a nominal two pct while its nominal imports
fell by 10.7 pct. West Germany's imports dropped largely because of
foreign currency developments and the cheaper price of oil and led to
a record trade surplus last year. However, Stoltenberg said that in
real terms West Germany's exports by volume had increased by 1.5 pct
while real imports had risen by a much stronger 6.2 pct. In this way
West Germany had made its contribution to economic stability,
Stoltenberg added. Stoltenberg noted the government expected imports
to rise by a real four to five pct in 1987 with exports stagnating. He
said it was too early to revise official forecasts for West Germany's
economic growth this year. The government has forecast an unchanged
2.5 pct rise in Gross National Product. The Kiel Institute, a leading
research body, is still expecting growth of three pct but some other
research institutes have revised forecasts down to below two pct.
Stoltenberg said the wide range of predictions showed how many
imponderables had to be taken into account and said no drastic changes
in official forecasts were needed. REUTER 

FED'S JOHNSON URGES STRONGER ALLIED GROWTH
    WASHINGTON, March 19 - 
Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said that the
U.S.'s main industrial partners should expand their domestic growth.
In a speech to a women's group here, Johnson said, "There is room for
stronger domestic growth in those countries ... strong enough to
absorb growth in U.S. export markets." Johnson also said there was a
better alignment of exchange rates now and the Paris agreement to
stabilize currencies has brought western nations a long way towards
establishing that goal. Johnson said, "The Fed supports this pattern
of exchange rates ... and we'll see if it leads to a convergence in
trade. Quite possibly it can be achieved." Johnson said the Paris
agreement achieved a better alignment of exchange rates in exchange
for stimulus by the major surplus countries. He said this was "a major
improvement and a step in the right direction" and added U.S. allies
look very strongly to a U.S. budget deficit cut. "There will always be
a potential risk of breakdown in international cooperation" without a
budget deficit cut. Reuter 

BANKERS OPPOSE STRICT TAIWAN CURRENCY CONTROLS
    TAIPEI, March 12 - 
Taiwan imposed currency controls today in what bankers called a
desperate move to prevent speculation as the Taiwan dollar appreciated
against the U.S. currency. The strict controls will require proof that
large remittances to Taiwan are connected to commercial transactions
rather than currency speculation. Bankers attacked the controls as
ineffective, saying they were a panic reaction to pressure from
Washington for faster appreciation of the Taiwan currency against the
U.S. dollar, which would slow exports to the United States.
Remittances exceeding one mln dlrs earned through exports, shipping,
insurance or bank lending will now need government approval, along
with remittances of more than 10,000 dlrs from any other source.
Reuter 

FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES
    NEW YORK, March 30 - 
The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to
arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed
spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct
when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to
the banking system. Reuter 

MULFORD DISAPPOINTED IN NEWLY INDUSTRIALIZED (NICS) EFFORTS TO STRENGTHEN CURRENCIES




U.S. FED EXPLORES COMMODITY BASKET INDEX
    WASHINGTON, MARCH 31 - 
The complex task of wielding control over monetary policy in an
increasingly fast-moving global economy could be aided by tying policy
to commodity prices, the newest member of the Federal Reserve Board
says. Commodity prices are already considered by the Fed in the making
of monetary policy. But they would be given a much greater role under
an idea being floated by Governor Robert Heller, who joined the board
last August. He conceeds that much more study of the idea is needed,
but argues that such an arrangement, particularly if it were adopted
by other major industrial countries, could reduce the volatility of
exchange rates. Moreover, it could help stabilize of the prices of
commodities themselves, slowing changes in inflation. His idea, which
many conservative economists find appealing, has some backing among
board members appointed in recent years by President Reagan. It would
complement the present system of opening or closing the monetary
screws based on the pattern of inflation, key indicators such as
unemployment, and the rise or fall of the money supply. Changes in the
money supply can lead to changes in interest rates and affect economic
activity directly. Discussed on and off for a long time, the commodity
concept is part of a growing search for a system that anchors monetary
policy and widely-fluxtuating currency prices to a more solid base.
"What is needed is an anchor or reference point that can serve as a
guide for both domestic and international monetary purposes," says
Heller. In the past, this anchor was gold but the United States went
off the gold standard because the global economy had vastly
outstripped gold supplies. A return to the gold standard is generally
dismissed out of hand by most policymakers on the grounds that the
largest producers of gold are the Soviet Union and South Africa. The
so-called fixed rate system, scuttled in the early 1970s, is still
considered unworkable in the present world. But the current system of
floating currencies in which currencies can fluxtuate widely, adding
vast pressures to the monetary system, is also being widely
questioned. Some have suggested that the system might benefit from a
formal approach that mandates intervention by countries when
currencies wander above or below agreed to levels but there are major
problems with this also. For one thing, there is justifiable concern
that countries might be relunctant to intervene if they felt it might
be detrimental to their own domestic economy. Moreover, some question
whether concerted intervention can make much of an inpact if the
overall market does not agree with the fundamental judgement. The
poorest countries have called for a monetary conference to work out a
new system that, not surprisingly, helps them cope with their
overpowering debt problems. Treasury Secretary James Baker, the Reagan
administration's chief economic architect, has preferred to use the
so-called Group of Five industrial countries or sometimes, Seven, as a
forum to work out cooperative agreements on currency and other
economic matters. He appears convinced that officials from West
Germany, France, Britain, Japan, Italy and Canada talking quietly
behind closed doors can reached reasoned decisions away from public
posturing. The Heller approach, while extremely complex, could have a
profound impact on the system, ideally stabalizing prices and
international exchange rates. As envisioned by Heller, a basket of
say, 30 major commodities ranging from wheat to oil, would be put
together and prices would be measured on a regular basis. "In times of
rising commodity prices, monetary policy might be tightened and in
times of falling commodity prices, montary policy might be eased," he
says. He notes that commodity prices are traded daily in auction
markets, and a commodity price index can be calculated on a virtually
continuous basis. Moreover, most commodity prices are produced,
consumed and traded on a world-wide basis, so "that an index has a
relevance for the entire world," he says. In addition, commodity
prices are at the beginning of the production chain and serve as an
imput into virtually all production processes. "Focusing on commodity
prices as an early and sensitive indicator of current and perhaps also
future prices pressures, the monetary authorities may take such an
index into account in making their monetary policy decisions," he
says. However, he says that any major change in a basic commodity such
as occurred in oil during the 1970s because of action by the OPEC
cartel, would have to be discounted in such a system. He says the
worst thing that could happen is to allow monetary policy to spread a
freakish increase in one commodity to the rest of the system and to
other commodities. Reuter 

LAWSON SAYS U.K. ELECTION NOT ONLY EMS BAR
    KNOKKE-HEIST, Belgium, April 5 - 
British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said the next U.K.
Election was not the only element standing in the way of full British
membership of the European Monetary System (EMS). But he added that
arguments against joining had weakened. Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher, widely believed to be the strongest government opponent of
full EMS membership, has made clear she does not expect to consider
joining until after the next UK election, due by mid-1988 at the
latest. But Lawson, in answer to a question, told reporters after an
informal European Community finance ministers' meeting here that other
factors apart from the upcoming election stood in the way of full
membership. In addition to the question of the exchange rates at which
Britain should enter the EMS's core exchange rate mechanism, there was
also the impact of sterling membership on the system to be considered,
he said. British entry would change the EMS from a monopolar system
based on the West German mark to a bipolar mark-sterling system, he
noted. "We have to make sure it would work." But Lawson added that
some of the considerations that had made it difficult for Britain to
join in the past now posed less of a problem. As an example he cited
sterling's role as a petrocurrency, which he said was diminishing.
"That argument has clearly weakened," he said. Lawson restated that
the government was keeping the question of membership under review.
REUTER 

EGYPTIAN CENTRAL BANK DOLLAR RATE UNCHANGED
    CAIRO, March 4 - 
Egypt's Central Bank today set the dollar rate for commercial banks
for March 6 at 1.373/87 dollars, unchanged from the previous rate.
REUTER 

SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central
bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange
rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial
nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including
market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris
agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France,
Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising
exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued
after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40.
"It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of
floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150
yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he
said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then
were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and
further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment
prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said. Reuter 

Sumita says Bank of Japan will intervene if necessary




ZAMBIA, IMF TALKS HIT PROBLEMS OVER FOOD SUBSIDIES
    LUSAKA, March 16 - 
Zambia's talks with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund
(IMF) on a financial rescue package have run into difficulties on the
issue of food subsidies, an official newspaper said. The Times of
Zambia, which is run by the ruling United National Independence Party
(UNIP), quoted official sources as saying the IMF and World Bank had
refused to continue financing food subsidies and were pressing the
government to explain how it proposes to pay for them. President
Kenneth Kaunda tried to abolish maize subsidies last December, in line
with IMF recommendations, but the move caused maize meal prices to
double overnight and led to riots in which 15 people were killed. The
subsidies were immediately restored as part of moves to quell the
disturbances, but they are estimated to cost the government about 500
mln kwacha per year. The Times of Zambia said another major issue in
the government's current talks with the IMF and World Bank was the
remodelling of Zambia's foreign exchange auction. The central bank's
weekly auction of foreign exchange to the private sector has been
suspended since the end of January, pending modifications to slow down
the rate of devaluation and dampen fluctuations in the exchange rate.
The kwacha slid to around 15 per dollar under the auction system,
losing 85 pct of its value in 16 months. However, since the end of
January it has been revalued to a fixed rate of nine per dollar.
Banking sources said Zambia was persuaded by the World Bank and IMF to
lift its proposed ceiling of 12.50 kwacha per dollar on the currency's
devaluation once the auctions restart. According to the Times of
Zambia, the IMF team, led by assistant director for Africa Paul
Acquah, is due to conclude its talks with the government on schedule
on March 23. The IMF mission arrived in Lusaka on February 26 and its
talks with the government have taken longer than expected. REUTER 

BANK OF ENGLAND DRAINS MONEY MARKET LIQUIDITY
    LONDON, March 25 - 
The Bank of England said it drained liquidity from the money market
when it sold 167 mln stg of treasury bills due March 27 at rates
between 9-9/16 and 10 pct. Earlier, the bank estimated a surplus of
around 250 mln stg in the system today. REUTER 

GULF ARAB MINISTERS DISCUSS ECONOMIC COOPERATION
    ABU DHABI, March 17 - 
Finance and economy ministers of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)
opened a two- day meeting to discuss further economic integration,
officials said. They said issues to be discussed by the ministers from
Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates (UAE) would include a recommendation by central bank
governors on a common currency exchange rate. The governors agreed in
January on a denominator on which to base currencies of the six
states. Any decision will be forwarded for final approval to a GCC
summit meeting due in Saudi Arabia late this year. The six states have
different currency systems. Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar and the UAE
are linked in theory to the International Monetary Fund's basket of
currencies -- the special drawing right (SDR) -- but in practice to
the dollar. Oman links its currency formally to the dollar, while
Kuwait pegs its dinar to a trade-weighted basket devised by itself.
The denominator chosen by central bank governors has not been
disclosed, but some bankers expect the currencies to be linked to the
SDR or a trade-weighted basket. Opening the meeting, Ahmed al-Tayer,
the UAE's Minister of State for Finance and Industry, said
implementation of joint economic agreements "is increasingly linking
the interests of GCC citizens together." The general assembly of the
Gulf Investment Corporation met in Abu Dhabi earlier under the
chairmanship of Bahrain's Finance and National Economy Minister,
Ibrahim Abdul-Karim The corporation was formed to contribute to joint
economic and investment projects in the GCC. Officials said the
corporation's assets rose to 1.31 billion dollars last year from 1.04
billion at the end of 1985. REUTER 

NIGERIAN CURRENCY FIRMS AT LATEST AUCTION
    LAGOS, March 5 - 
The Nigerian naira firmed 2.6 pct against the dollar after 17 banks
were disqualified from bidding at today's weekly foreign exchange
auction, the central bank said. The naira finished at 3.8050 to the
dollar, against 3.9050 last week. Only 38.39 mln dlrs of the 50 mln
dlrs on offer was sold, with all 27 bidding banks successfully
obtaining hard currency. The effective rate, including a central bank
levy, for transactions in the coming week, was 3.8241 against 3.9246
last week. The failure to sell the whole allocation was due to the
central bank's unprecedented disqualification of 17 banks as
punishment for inadequate documentation in previous transactions.
Banks are required to submit proof that their bids are based on valid
commercial transactions and the central bank has complained in the
past that many are failing to produce the right paperwork within the
specified time. REUTER 

BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT OPERATE IN MONEY MARKET
    LONDON, March 30 - 
The Bank of England said it had not operated in the money market
during the morning session. Earlier, the Bank revised its forecast of
the liquidity position to flat from its original estimate of a 100 mln
stg surplus. REUTER 

FORMER HERSTATT DEALER CAN BE SUED, COURT RULES
    KASSEL, West Germany, March 26- 
The former chief currency dealer of Herstatt Bank, which collapsed in
1974 on foreign exchange speculation in West Germany's biggest banking
crash, can stand trial for damages, a court ruled. The court
overturned a claim by Danny Dattel that a case for damages should not
be allowed after such a long interval. Herstatt creditors are seeking
12.5 mln marks from Dattel, whom they accuse of causing losses at the
bank of over 500 mln marks by manipulating forward foreign exchange
contracts. The crash of the private Herstatt bank with losses of over
one billion marks stunned West Germany's business community, and led
to a tightening of banking regulations. The losses were even greater
than the 480 mln marks announced recently by Volkswagen as a result of
fraud in currency transactions. Ivan Herstatt, managing director of
the bank when it collapsed, was sentenced to four and a half years in
prison in 1984 but appealed. Six other people associated with the bank
were jailed in 1983. But Dattel was freed from prosecution after he
produced medical evidence of paranoia caused by Nazi persecution
during his childhood, which might have led him to take his own life.
Reuter 

FED BUYING ONE BILLION DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER
ACCOUNT, FED SAYS




BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT OPERATE IN MONEY MARKET
    LONDON, March 25 - 
The Bank of England said it had not operated in the money market
during the morning session. Earlier, the Bank revised its forecast of
the liquidity position in the system today to a surplus of 150 mln stg
from its original estimate of a flat position. REUTER 

ZAMBIAN EXCHANGE AUCTION TO RESUME AT END OF MARCH
    LUSAKA, March 17 - 
Zambia will reintroduce a modified foreign exchange auction at the end
of this month as part of a new two-tier exchange rate, central bank
governor Leonard Chivuno said. Chivuno told a press conference at the
end of three weeks of negotiations with the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) that there would be a fixed exchange rate for official
transactions and a fluctuating rate, decided by the auction, for other
types of business. The Bank of Zambia previously held weekly auctions
to distribute foreign exchange to the private sector and determine the
kwacha's exchange rate, but these were suspended at the end of
January. President Kenneth Kaunda said at the time that he was
suspending the auction system in view of the rapid devaluation and
violent fluctations of the exchange rate which had resulted. Business
and banking sources said another reason for suspending the auction was
that the central bank was low on foreign exchange and was 10 weeks
behind in paying successful bidders. The kwacha stood at 2.2 per
dollar when the auction system was first introduced in October 1985,
but it slid to around 15 per dollar by the time it was suspended 16
months later. Since then, Zambia has operated a fixed exchange rate of
about nine kwacha per dollar. REUTER 

MIYAZAWA SAYS U.S. LIKELY TO INTERVENE
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told Parliament's Lower House Finance
Committee that the U.S. Is expected to intervene in the foreign
exchange market to stabilise exchange rates, political sources said.
Asked if the U.S. Federal Reserve Board agreed in Paris last month to
intervene to stabilise exchange rates, Miyazawa said yes, the sources
said. Miyazawa was also quoted as saying that he is sceptical about
the effectiveness of currency reference ranges even if major nations
agree on such an idea as it is extremely difficult to set such ranges.
REUTER 

SOUTH KOREAN WON FIXED AT 25-MONTH HIGH
    SEOUL, April 8 - 
THE BANK OF KOREA SAID IT FIXED THE MIDRATE OF THE WON AT 844.30 TO
THE DOLLAR, ITS HIGHEST LEVEL SINCE FEBRUARY 26, 1985, WHEN IT WAS
843.90. THE WON WAS SET at 845.50 YESTERDAY. THE WON HAS RISEN 2.03
PCT AGAINST THE DOLLAR SO FAR THIS YEAR, AFTER RISING 3.34 PCT IN
1986. REUTER 

PHILIPPINE PLANNING CHIEF URGES PESO DEVALUATION
    MANILA, March 3 - 
The Philippines must devalue the peso if it wants its exports to
remain competitive, Economic Planning Secretary Solita Monsod told
Reuters. "The peso/dollar rate has to be undercut to make our exports
more competitive," Monsod said an interview. "No question about it.
I'm saying you cannot argue with success. Taiwan, South Korea, West
Germany, Japan, all those miracle economies deliberately undervalued
their currencies." The peso has been free-floating since June 1984. It
is currently at about 20.50 to the U.S. Dollar. Finance Secretary
Jaime Ongpin has said the government does not intend to devalue the
peso and wants it to be flexible and able to continue to respond to
market conditions. Monsod said Ongpin was looking at the exchange rate
from the point of view of finance. "If the dollar rate goes higher,
our debt service in terms of pesos gets higher, so the financing is
very difficult," she said. "But I am looking at it in terms of the
economy." She said she was not trying to oppose official policy. "I'm
just saying, keep it competitive. I do not want it to become
uncompetitive because then we are dead." Monsod said, "The ideal
movement in the peso/dollar rate is a movement that will reflect
differences in inflation (rates) of the Philippines versus the other
country. It's an arithmetic thing." Official figures show Philippine
inflation averaged 0.8 pct in calendar 1986. Ongpin told reporters on
Saturday it was expected to touch five pct this year. He said the
government and the International Monetary Fund had set the peso/dollar
1987 target rate at 20.80. The peso lost 22.2 pct in value to slump to
18.002 to the dollar when it was floated in 1984. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP
    LONDON, April 1 - 
The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the shortage
in the money market up to 1.3 billion stg from 1.2 billion before
taking account of its early operations. The Bank has provided 689 mln
stg assistance so far today. REUTER 

BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT INTERVENE IN MONEY MARKET
    LONDON, March 11 - 
The Bank of England said it did not operate in the money market during
the morning. Initially, the bank forecast a liqudity shortage of some
300 mln stg for the market today. Overnight interbank sterling traded
at the 11-1/4 1/8 pct level for most of the morning while period rates
have eased on the strength of sterling, dealers said. At 1200 gmt,
sterling's trade-weighted index was up 0.6 at 72.7. REUTER 

BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS CURRENCY AGREEMENT
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said he stood by the Paris agreement
among leading industrial nations to foster exchange rate stability
around current levels. "I would refer you to the Paris agreement which
was a recognition the currencies were within ranges broadly consistent
with economic fundamentals," Baker told The Cable News Network in an
interview. "We were quite satisfied with the agreement in Paris
otherwise we would not have been a party too it," he said. Baker also
noted the nations agreed in the accord to "co-operate to foster
greater exchange rate stability around those levels." He refused to
comment directly on the current yen/dollar rate but said flatly that
foreign exchange markets recently tended "to draw unwarranted
inferences from what I say." Baker was quoted on British Television
over the weekend as saying he has no target for the U.S. currency, a
statement that triggered this week's renewed decline of the dollar. "I
think the Paris agreement represents evidence that international
economic policy co-ordination is alive and well," Baker said. The
Treasury Secretary stressed however it was very important for the main
surplus countries to grow as fast as they could consistent with low
inflation to resolve trade imbalances. He added that Federal Reserve
Board chairman Paul Volcker has also "been very outspoken" in
suggesting main trading partners grow as fast as they can. Baker noted
that the J-curve, the delayed beneficial effect of a weakening of a
currency on that country's trade balance, takes 12 to 18 months to
work its way through to the trade deficit and it is now 18 months
since the Plaza agreement to lower the dollar's value. He also said
improvements in the trade deficit should come from other sources
besides the exchange rate, and pointed out the administration's
package to improve U.S. Competitiveness was now before Congress.
REUTER 

PHILADELPHIA EXCHANGE TO EXTEND HOURS FOR ASIA
    SYDNEY, March 30 - 
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX), a leading trader of currency
options, plans to extend its trading hours to serve Australasian and
Far Eastern markets, exchange president Nicholas Giordano said. He
told reporters the PHLX will open a new session between 1900 and 2300
hours U.S. EST from the beginning of the third quarter this year. The
PHLX is also opening an office in Hong Kong to serve clients in the
region and educate financial markets about the advantages of currency
options, Giordano said. Giordano was in Sydney to start an Asian-
Pacific tour by exchange executives promoting the hedging benefits of
the exchange-trade currency option market against existing over-the-
counter option trading during the local working day. Currency options
pioneered by the PHLX in 1982 had become an accepted means of hedging
against foreign exchange risk and had grown in popularity, he said.
The PHLX now offered options in eight currencies, including a new
Australian dollar option, and traded an average 42,000 contracts daily
with underlying open interest of more than 30 billion U.S. Dlrs.
Giordano said the exchange had been impressed with the performance of
its Australian dollar contract, which since its introduction last year
had regularly topped the French franc as the third most popular traded
option, with up to 8,000 contracts traded daily. Having the
Philadelphia exchange open during the Asia-Pacific market day would
open new hedging opportunities, set a truer level for over-the-counter
option trading, increase arbitraging opportunities and give
corporations and treasuries access to a currency option market of much
greater depth and liquidity with the security of a clearing house, he
said. REUTER 

FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS




U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 85 MLN STG LATE HELP
    LONDON, March 4 - 
The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with late
assistance of around 85 mln stg. This brings the bank total help so
far today to some 87 mln stg and compares with its latest forecast of
a 250 mln stg shortage in the system today. REUTER 

DOLLAR SEEN FALLING UNLESS JAPAN SPURS ECONOMY
    TOKYO, March 17 - 
Underlying dollar sentiment is bearish, and operators may push the
currency to a new low unless Japan takes steps to stimulate its
economy as pledged in the Paris accord, foreign exchange analysts
polled by Reuters said here. "The dollar is expected to try its
psychological barrier of 150.00 yen and to fall even below that
level," a senior dealer at one leading bank said. The dollar has eased
this week, but remains stable at around 151.50 yen. Six major
industrial countries agreed at a meeting in Paris in February to
foster currency stability. Some dealers said the dollar may decline in
the long term, but a drastic fall is unlikely because of U.S. Fears of
renewed inflation and fears of reduced Japanese purchases of U.S.
Treasury securities, needed to finance the U.S. Deficit. Dealers
generally doubted whether any economic package Japan could adopt soon
would be effective enough to reduce its trade surplus significantly,
and said such measures would probably invite further U.S. Steps to
weaken the dollar. Under the Paris accord, Tokyo promised a package of
measures after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed to boost domestic
demand, increase imports and cut its trade surplus. But debate on the
budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott of Parliamentary
business over the proposed imposition of a five pct sales tax, and the
government has only a slim chance of producing a meaningful economic
package in the near future, the dealers said. If no such steps are
taken, protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congress will grow, putting
greater downward pressure on the dollar, they said. The factors
affecting the U.S. Currency have not changed since before the Paris
accord, they added. "Underlying sentiment for the dollar remains
bearish due to a still-sluggish U.S. Economic outlook, the
international debt crisis triggered by Brazil's unilateral suspension
of interest payments on its foreign debts and the reduced clout of the
Reagan administration as a result of the Iran/Contra arms scandal,"
said a senior dealer at a leading trust bank. "There is a possibility
that the dollar may decline to around 140.00 yen by the end of this
year," said Chemical Bank Tokyo branch vice president Yukuo Takahashi.
But operators find it hard to push the dollar either way for fear of
possible concerted central bank intervention. Dealers said there were
widespread rumours that the U.S. Federal Reserve telephoned some banks
in New York to ask for quotes last Wednesday, and even intervened to
sell the dollar when it rose to 1.87 marks. The Bank of England also
apparently sold sterling in London when it neared 1.60 dlrs on
Wednesday, they said. But other dealers said they doubted the efficacy
of central bank intervention, saying it may stimulate the dollar's
decline because many dealers are likely to await such dollar buying
intervention as a chance to sell dollars. However, First National Bank
of Chicago Tokyo Branch assistant manager Hiroshi Mochizuki said "The
dollar will not show drastic movement at least to the end of March."
Other dealers said the U.S. Seems unwilling to see any strong dollar
swing until Japanese companies close their books for the fiscal year
ending on March 31, because a weak dollar would give Japanese
institutional investors paper losses on their foreign holdings, which
could make them lose interest in purchases of U.S. Treasury
securities. U.S. Monetary officials may refrain from making any
comments this month to avoid influencing rates, they said. REUTER 

BELGIAN CENTRAL BANK BUYS CURRENCY TO REPAY DEBT
    BRUSSELS, March 11 - 
The Belgian National Bank bought foreign currencies against francs on
the open market in the week ended March 9, a Bank spokesman said. In
line with central bank policy he declined to give any details of the
amount bought. The foreign currency purchased was used by the Treasury
to repay foreign debt and did not affect the Bank's foreign exchange
reserves. They slipped 394 mln francs to 37.33 billion, mostly due to
sales of dollars for Special Drawing Rights, the spokesman said.
REUTER 

ASIAN DOLLAR MARKET ASSETS FALL IN JANUARY
    SINGAPORE, March 30 - 
The gross size of the Asian dollar market contracted to 197.2 billion
U.S. Dlrs in January, down 3.4 billion dlrs from December, reflecting
a decline in interbank activity, the Monetary Authority of Singapore
(MAS) said in its latest monthly bulletin. The assets stood at 151.7
billion dlrs in January last year. MAS said interbank lending fell in
January to 140.9 billion dlrs from 146.6 billion in December but rose
from 102.0 billion in january 1986 and interbank deposits to 154.0
billion against 159.4 and 117.1 billion, respectively. Loans to non-
bank customers increased to 40.1 billion dlrs in January from 38.7
billion in December and 36.9 billion in January, 1986. Deposits of
non-bank customers also increased in January to 34.9 billion from 33.8
billion a month ago and 27.7 billion a year ago. REUTER 

FED SETS 2.5 BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS




U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 104 MLN STG HELP
   LONDON, March 24 - 
The Bank of England said it provided the money market with assistance
of 104 mln stg in the afternoon session. This takes the bank's total
help so far today to 219 mln stg and compares with its estimate of a
300 mln stg shortage. The central bank bought outright 104 mln stg in
bank bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 

NIGERIA CHANGES AUCTION RULES TO DEFEND THE NAIRA
    LAGOS, March 22 - 
Nigeria's Central Bank has changed the rules governing its foreign
exchange auctions in what analysts see as a means of defending the
naira currency, which has depreciated steadily. The bank said in a
statement that from April 2, banks bidding for foreign exchange would
have to pay at the rate they offered and not, as presently, at the
rate of the lowest successful bid made at the auction. This should
discourage banks from bidding high to ensure that they were successful
while paying the lower "marginal" rate, analysts said. "It should act
as a brake because banks will know that if they bid high they will
have to pay what they offered," a Western diplomat commented. The
naira has depreciated against the dollar by 62 pct since the auctions,
known as the Second-Tier Foreign Exchange Market (SFEM), began last
September 26. At last week's session the Nigerian currency was fixed
at 4.0 to the dollar, the third fall in a row. "They were clearly
worried... And this is the logical way of trying to stop the trend,"
the diplomat said. The Central Bank also announced the auctions would
be fortnightly, not weekly, beginning on April 2. It was not
immediately clear whether next Thursday's scheduled session would
still take place, nor if the bank was planning to double the 50 mln
dlrs which are normally on offer at each auction. Demand for foreign
exchange has consistently outstripped supply, encouraging banks to bid
high and thus further weakening the naira. If the normal weekly
allocation is not doubled at the fortnightly session, high demand
could undermine the objective of the new system, analysts said.
Although bidding banks will now pay what they offered, the official
exchange rate for the naira applying to business transactions will
continue to be the marginal rate -- the lowest successful bid. SFEM is
a central part of Nigeria's structural adjustment program, which is
considered to be the most ambitious economic recovery plan in Black
Africa. The program involves setting a realistic exchange rate for the
naira, which was over-valued for many years, liberalising imports,
boosting agriculture, removing subsidies and reducing inefficient
government participation in the economy. The World Bank has played a
prominent part in designing this dramatic blue-print and in selling it
to an often sceptical public which fears inflation and lower living
standards. Ishrat Husain, the World Bank's representative in Nigeria,
said yesterday he was satisfied both with the adjustment program as a
whole and the foreign exchange auctions. "So far so good" he told a
meeting of bankers in Lagos, adding that only members of Nigeria's
import-dependent elite would suffer hardship while the common man
would benefit. Fears that the program would encourage inflation were
incorrect, he said. Bumper harvests had reduced rural inflation and
urban prices had already reflected the naira's black market value
before the currency was allowed to find its true level last September.
REUTER 

TREASURY'S MULFORD SAYS G-6 HAS NO CURRENCY TARGET ZONES, RANGES




LEADING INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MEET IN APRIL
    WASHINGTON, March 16 - 
Leading industrial nations will meet again next month to review their
accord on currency stability, but U.S. Officials said financial
markets are convinced for now the countries will live up to
commitments to speed up economic growth. The narrow currency movements
of recent weeks strongly suggests the six leading industrial countries
have tamed the normally unruly financial markets and next month's
talks seem likely to build on that stability. A Reagan administration
official said the Paris agreement last month was the main reason
markets were calm. But he said in an interview that financial markets
also understood, "That all six countries concluded that the measures
to be taken over a period of time in the future should foster
stability of exchange rates around current levels. That is in fact
what has happened since Paris." Monetary analysts said stability has
been helped in part by the decision of industrial nations to bury the
hatchet and cease to quarrel over short-term policy objectives.
Instead they have focused on medium-term policy goals, but left room
to adjust their agreements with periodic meetings. The official
refused to comment, however, on whether the agreement included a
secret pact to consider further coordinated interest rate cuts -- a
measure industrial nations have taken jointly several times in the
past year. On February 22, the United States, Japan, West Germany,
France, Britain and Canada agreed that major currencies were within
ranges broadly reflecting underlying economic conditions, given
commitments by Washington to cut its budget deficit and by Toyko and
Bonn to boost economic growth. The shake-up would strengthen the U.S.
Position in future international talks. "I think these changes will
strengthen the President's hand politically and the stronger he is
politically the better off we are with the Congress and the better off
we are in international fora," said the official, an Administration
economic policymaker. "So it would be beneficial to the continued
conduct of our initiatives." But the official also said the
Administration would resist calls for a tax increase to cut the budget
deficit -- a target Europeans say is crucial to help curb economic
instability. Last week, dealers said the Federal Reserve intervened to
stop the dollar rising against the mark, which had breached 1.86 to
the dollar. British authorities are also understood to have intervened
to curb sterling's strength. International monetary sources say
finance ministers and central bankers, who will review market
performance and their own economic prospects, will reassemble again in
Washington just before the April 9 policymaking meeting of the
International Monetary Fund. The sources said Italy, which refused to
join the Paris pact, was invited back by Treasury Secretary James
Baker. Since Paris, there are signs West German growth is slowing,
while U.S. Officials said they were giving Japan until April to show
that an economic stimulus package was in the offing. Signs of concern
about German prospects emerged recently when Bundesbank (central bank)
president Karl Otto Poehl told bankers he would consider cutting West
German interest rates if the Fed was ready to follow suit. A Reagan
Administration official said this would show there had been some
change in approach on the part of the central bank in Germany. But he
declined to comment on the prospects for action by the Fed and the
Bundesbank. "If there is such a provision it is private and if I
talked about it, it would no longer be private," said the official,
who asked not to be identified. Public comments by Fed officials
suggest the central bank is keeping credit conditions broadly
unchanged, but if the major economies continue to show sluggish growth
and the U.S. Trade deficit remains stubbornly high, further
coordinated action could be on the April agenda. REUTER... 

FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS




FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES
    NEW YORK, March 11 - 
The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to
arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed
spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-5/16 pct
when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to
the banking system. Reuter 

U.S. JOBS DATA SAID TO RULE OUT FED TIGHTENING
    NEW YORK, April 3 - 
A steep drop in goods-producing jobs detracted from U.S. March non-
farm payroll employment and makes it unlikely that the Federal Reserve
will tighten monetary policy to defend the dollar, economists said.
U.S. March non-farm payroll employment rose 164,000, less than the
gain of 220,000 to 290,000 the financial markets expected.
Manufacturing employment fell 25,000, compared with February's 50,000
gain, while March construction employment dropped 45,000 after being
unchanged in February. "The momentum of industrial activity is
tapering off as we end the first quarter," said Stephen Roach of
Morgan Stanley and Co Inc. "This sets the stage for more sluggish
growth in the second and third quarters." "The Fed will view this as a
caution flag on the economy," he said. "They will not ease as long the
dollar is weak, but clearly they can't tighten." David Wyss of Data
Resources Inc said that the downward revision in February non-farm
payroll employment to 236,000 from 337,000 means that employment gains
in the first quarter were weaker than expected. While Wyss left his
first-quarter forecast of real U.S. gross national product growth at
3.5 pct, he said the March jobs data suggested a downward revision in
his second-quarter growth forecast to 2.5 pct from 2.8 pct. Bill
Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc said the average monthly gain in
non-farm jobs in the first quarter was only 237,000, compared with
254,000 in the fourth quarter of 1986. "There's momentum in first
quarter labor force activity, but less than assumed," he said. "Gains
in goods-producing jobs were subdued at best. This rules out any
possibilty of the Fed tightening for exchange-related purposes." In
March, the average workweek fell back to its January level of 34.8
hours from 35.0 hours in February. Manufacturing hours also fell back
to their January level, totalling 40.9 hours in March compared with
41.2 hours in February. The Commerce Department noted that loss of
manufacturing jobs in March was concentrated in automobile, electrical
and electronic manufacturing. Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities
International said that a 13,000 decline in auto manufacturing
employment accounted for nearly half of the total drop in
manufacturing jobs. Economists said that a build-up in auto
inventories resulting from a steep drop in sales has finally caught up
with the labor force and may point to slower growth ahead. Most expect
an increase in inventories of as much as five pct to offset a steep
four to five pct drop in final sales in the first-quarter GNP
accounts. Roach said he expects first quarter U.S. GNP to rise two
pct, to be followed by a gain of 1.0-1.5 pct at best in the second and
third quarters. He said the March drop in industrial activity "is a
reasonable response in light of the inordinate contribution inventory
accumulation made to GNP." Economists said the employment data also
suggest weak gains in industrial production and personal income for
March. They expect only marginal gains, if not small declines, for
these indicators, compared with a February increases of 0.5 pct in
industrial production and 0.9 pct in personal income. Steve Slifer of
Lehman Government Securities said the drop in March construction
employment may also signal a drop in March housing starts, which rose
2.6 pct in February to 1.851 million units at an annual rate from
1.804 million units in January. The rate of unemployment fell to 6.6
pct, its lowest level since March 1980, from 6.7 pct in February. But
Wyss pointed out that this resulted from a drop in the labor force,
which fell to 119.2 mln in March from 119.35 mln in February. "This
just means that there were fewer people looking for work, so the drop
in unemployment doesn't mean much," he said. He said the latest
employment report will not concern the Fed because it does points to
GNP growth in the first half of 2.5-3.0 pct, but "it does suggest they
can't afford to tighten to quickly either." The statistical factors
used to smooth out seasonal fluctuations in the jobs data may have
understated March labor force gains, just as seasonal factors probably
overstated them in January and February, Slifer said, but are
consistent with his forecast of 1.8 pct first quarter GNP growth.
Economic growth remains sluggish, but Silfer does not think that the
Federal Open Market Committee changed policy at their meeting this
week. "At some point they will be more inclined to ease," he said. For
the time being, however, the March employment report "increases the
likelihood they won't tighten, regardless of the dollar." Reuter 

U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS CURRENCIES WITHIN RANGES THAT BETTER REFLECT FUNDAMENTALS




JAPAN CONDUCTS CURRENCY SURVEY OF BIG INVESTORS
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
A Finance Ministry official said the ministry has recently conducted a
survey on foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors but
declined to say if it was aimed at moderating their dollar sales.
However, financial market sources said they had heard the ministry has
asked life insurance and securities firms to refrain from selling
dollars, but they were unable to confirm this directly. Dealers said
life insurance firms were not major sellers of dollars in recent
trading sessions because they had already sold them to hedge risks.
Dealers said securities houses and trust banks on the other hand have
aggressively sold the dollar. REUTER 

U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 450 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 19 - 
The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 450 mln stg
in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity,
bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills
will drain some 650 mln stg while a rise in note circulation will take
out around 30 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, bankers'
balances above target and exchequer transactions will add some 200 mln
stg and 35 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 

