WHITE HOUSE SAYS JAPANESE TARRIFFS LIKELY
    WASHINGTON, April 8 - 
The White House said high U.S. Tariffs on Japanese electronic goods
would likely be imposed as scheduled on April 17, despite an all-out
effort by Japan to avoid them. Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater
made the remark one day before U.S. And Japanese officials are to meet
under the emergency provisions of a July 1986 semiconductor pact to
discuss trade and the punitive tariffs. Fitzwater said: "I would say
Japan is applying the full-court press...They certainly are putting
both feet forward in terms of explaining their position." But he added
that "all indications are they (the tariffs) will take effect." Reuter


SOVIET TRADE DEFICIT WITH WEST SOARS IN 1986
    MOSCOW, April 9 - 
The Soviet trade deficit with the West almost quadrupled last year,
reaching 2.72 billion roubles compared with 713 mln in 1985, official
figures showed. Statistics published by the monthly journal Foreign
Trade showed Soviet trade turnover for 1986 fell to 130.9 billion
roubles from 142.1 billion the previous year, a drop of 7.8 pct.
Moscow's trade surplus with East Bloc countries continued to grow in
1986. Western analysts attributed the deficit rise with the West to
the world oil price slump, which hit Moscow's main export and cut hard
currency earnings needed for purchases in the West. REUTER 

U.S. WEIGHS LIFTING JAPANESE TRADE CURBS
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
The White House has completed a new review of Japanese semiconductor
trading practices but has not yet decided whether trade sanctions
levied against Japan last April should be lifted, U.S. officials said.
They said the president's Economic Policy Council looked at Japan's
adherence to the 1986 U.S.-Japanese semiconductor pact yesterday and
that an announcement may be made shortly. But there was no hint what
the announcement might be. Officials have said the 100 pct tariffs on
300 mln dlrs of Japanese exports could be modified if Japan was found
to be honoring a portion of its semiconductor pact. But they also
noted that the White House has said it was unlikely the tariffs would
be lifted before the meeting of the world's seven major economic
powers in Venice on June 8-10. The officials added that while the
curbs complicated U.S.-Japanese economic cooperation, they did serve
to blunt Congressional criticism that the Reagan Administrtation was
not taking tough actions to reduce he U.S. trade deficit. Reagan
imposed the sanctions on April 17 in retaliation for Japan's failure
to honor commitments to end dumping semiconductors in world markets at
less than production costs and to open its own market to U.S. goods.
The sanctions were levied on certain Japanese television sets,
personal computers and hand-held power tools. Reagan, in imposing the
curbs, said they would be lifted as soon as there was evidence of a
pattern that Japan was adhering to the pact. reuter 

TAIWAN ANNOUNCES NEW ROUND OF IMPORT TARIFF CUTS
    TAIPEI, April 11 - 
Taiwan announced plans for another round of import tariff cuts on 862
foreign goods shortly before trade talks with Washington which
officials described as a move to help balance trade with the United
States. Wang Der-Hwa, Deputy Director of the Finance Ministry's
Customs Administration Department, told reporters the list of products
included 60 items asked by Washington. "The move is part of our
government efforts to encourage imports from our trading partners,
particularly from the United States," he said. He said the ministry
sent a proposal today to the cabinet that the tariffs on such products
as cosmetics, bicycles, apples, radios, garments, soybeans and
television sets be cut by between five and 50 pct. The cabinet was
expected to give its approval next Thursday and the new tariff cuts
would be implemented possibly starting on April 20, he added. Taiwan
introduced a sweeping tariff cut on some 1,700 foreign products last
January aimed at helping reduce its growing trade surplus with the
United States, the island's largest trading partner. Washington
however was not satisfied with the cuts and pressed for more
reductions as a way of cutting its huge trade deficit with Taipei.
Washington's deficit with Taipei rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S.
Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985. It widened to 3.61 billion
in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78 billion a year earlier,
Taiwan's official figures show. Today's announcement came before a
departure later today of a 15-member Taiwan delegation for Washington
for a series of trade talks with U.S. Officials. The delegation's
leader, Vincent Siew, told reporters last night he was leaving with "a
heavy heart," meaning that he would face tough talks in Washington
because of rising protectionist sentiments in the U.S. Congress.
Taiwan's 1986 trade surplus with Washington was the third largest,
after Japan and Canada. Siew said the talks, starting on April 14,
would cover U.S. Calls for Taiwan to open its market to American
products, purchases of major U.S. Machinery and power plant equipment,
import tariff cuts and protection of intellectual property. "I am
afraid this time we have to give more than take from our talks with
the U.S.," he said without elaborating. REUTER 

CIVIL SERVICE STRIKE DELAYS U.K. TRADE FIGURES
    LONDON, June 19 - 
Civil service industrial action started early this month will delay
the publication of May's U.K. Overseas trade figures, which had been
due out next Thursday, a Trade and Industry Department statement said.
A department spokesman said the figures will probably be put back by
about a month. The June trade figures, due in late July, will also be
delayed, he added. REUTER 

U.S. COMMERCE TRADE REPORT OMITS FREIGHT COSTS
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
The Commerce Department said on that insurance and freight costs for
imported goods of 1.45 billion dlrs were included in the February
trade deficit of 15.1 billion dlrs reported on Tuesday. The department
is required by law to wait 48 hours after the initial trade report to
issue a second report on a "customs value" basis, which eliminates the
freight and insurance charges from the cost of imports. Private-sector
economists emphasized that the Commerce Department was not revising
down the deficit by 1.45 billion dlrs but simply presenting the
figures on a different basis. A report in the Washington Post caused a
stir in the foreign exchanges today because it gave the impression,
dealers said, that the underlying trade deficit for February had been
revised downward. The Commerce department would like to have the law
changed to permit it to report both sets of figures simultaneously.
"My feeling is the second one is a better report but there's
legislation that requires us to delay it two days," said Robert
Ortner, Commerce undersecretary for economic affairs. "But this has
been going on for a long time and no one pays any attention to the
second figure." The 15.1 billion dlr February trade deficit compared
with a revised January deficit of 12.3 billion dlrs. The law requiring
a 48-hour delay in publishing the monthly trade figure excluding
freight and insurance was passed in 1979. Reportedly the feeling was
the first figure, which includes customs, freight and insurance,
allowed a better comparison with other countries that reported their
trade balances on the same basis. The second figure, which would
always be lower by deducting freight and insurance, presents the
deficit in a more favorable light for the Reagan administration.
Ortner said he would like to see the law changed to eliminate the
48-hour delay in reporting the two figures. "We're considering it," he
said, "It's one of those dinosaur laws and I think it's time has
come." The second figure, which would always be lower by deducting
freight and insurance, presents the deficit in a more favorable light
for the Reagan administration. Ortner said he would like to see the
law changed to eliminate the 48-hour delay in reporting the two
figures. "We're considering it," he said, "It's one of those dinosaur
laws and I think its time has come." Reuter 

JAPAN WARNS U.S. IT MAY RETALIATE IN TRADE DISPUTE
    TOKYO, April 11 - 
Japan warned the United States it may take retaliatory measures if the
United States imposes its planned trade sanctions on April 17, a
senior government official said. Shinji Fukukawa, Vice Minister of the
International Trade and Industry Ministry, said in a statement Japan
would consider measures under the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade and other actions if the United States imposes 100 pct tariffs
on some Japanese exports as planned next week. However, Fukukawa said
Japan was ready to continue trade talks with the United States despite
its failure to convince America to call off the threatened tariffs
during two days of emergency talks which ended in Washington
yesterday. Last month President Reagan announced the sanctions in
retaliation for what he called Japan's failure to honour a July 1986
agreement to stop dumping computer microchips in markets outside the
United States and to open its home market to American goods. Fukukawa
said the United States had regrettably not listened to Japan's
explanation of its efforts to live up the pact and said Washington had
not given any detailed explanation of why it planned to impose the
tariffs. REUTER 

WHITE HOUSE SAYS JAPANESE TARRIFFS LIKELY
    WASHINGTON, April 8 - 
The White House said high U.S. Tariffs on Japanese electronic goods
would likely be imposed as scheduled on April 17, despite an all-out
effort by Japan to avoid them. Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater
made the remark one day before U.S. And Japanese officials are to meet
under the emergency provisions of a July 1986 semiconductor pact to
discuss trade and the punitive tariffs. Fitzwater said: "I would say
Japan is applying the full-court press...They certainly are putting
both feet forward in terms of explaining their position." But he added
that "all indications are they (the tariffs) will take effect." Reuter


SOVIET TRADE DEFICIT WITH WEST SOARS IN 1986
    MOSCOW, April 9 - 
The Soviet trade deficit with the West almost quadrupled last year,
reaching 2.72 billion roubles compared with 713 mln in 1985, official
figures showed. Statistics published by the monthly journal Foreign
Trade showed Soviet trade turnover for 1986 fell to 130.9 billion
roubles from 142.1 billion the previous year, a drop of 7.8 pct.
Moscow's trade surplus with East Bloc countries continued to grow in
1986. Western analysts attributed the deficit rise with the West to
the world oil price slump, which hit Moscow's main export and cut hard
currency earnings needed for purchases in the West. REUTER 

U.S. WEIGHS LIFTING JAPANESE TRADE CURBS
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
The White House has completed a new review of Japanese semiconductor
trading practices but has not yet decided whether trade sanctions
levied against Japan last April should be lifted, U.S. officials said.
They said the president's Economic Policy Council looked at Japan's
adherence to the 1986 U.S.-Japanese semiconductor pact yesterday and
that an announcement may be made shortly. But there was no hint what
the announcement might be. Officials have said the 100 pct tariffs on
300 mln dlrs of Japanese exports could be modified if Japan was found
to be honoring a portion of its semiconductor pact. But they also
noted that the White House has said it was unlikely the tariffs would
be lifted before the meeting of the world's seven major economic
powers in Venice on June 8-10. The officials added that while the
curbs complicated U.S.-Japanese economic cooperation, they did serve
to blunt Congressional criticism that the Reagan Administrtation was
not taking tough actions to reduce he U.S. trade deficit. Reagan
imposed the sanctions on April 17 in retaliation for Japan's failure
to honor commitments to end dumping semiconductors in world markets at
less than production costs and to open its own market to U.S. goods.
The sanctions were levied on certain Japanese television sets,
personal computers and hand-held power tools. Reagan, in imposing the
curbs, said they would be lifted as soon as there was evidence of a
pattern that Japan was adhering to the pact. reuter 

TAIWAN ANNOUNCES NEW ROUND OF IMPORT TARIFF CUTS
    TAIPEI, April 11 - 
Taiwan announced plans for another round of import tariff cuts on 862
foreign goods shortly before trade talks with Washington which
officials described as a move to help balance trade with the United
States. Wang Der-Hwa, Deputy Director of the Finance Ministry's
Customs Administration Department, told reporters the list of products
included 60 items asked by Washington. "The move is part of our
government efforts to encourage imports from our trading partners,
particularly from the United States," he said. He said the ministry
sent a proposal today to the cabinet that the tariffs on such products
as cosmetics, bicycles, apples, radios, garments, soybeans and
television sets be cut by between five and 50 pct. The cabinet was
expected to give its approval next Thursday and the new tariff cuts
would be implemented possibly starting on April 20, he added. Taiwan
introduced a sweeping tariff cut on some 1,700 foreign products last
January aimed at helping reduce its growing trade surplus with the
United States, the island's largest trading partner. Washington
however was not satisfied with the cuts and pressed for more
reductions as a way of cutting its huge trade deficit with Taipei.
Washington's deficit with Taipei rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S.
Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985. It widened to 3.61 billion
in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78 billion a year earlier,
Taiwan's official figures show. Today's announcement came before a
departure later today of a 15-member Taiwan delegation for Washington
for a series of trade talks with U.S. Officials. The delegation's
leader, Vincent Siew, told reporters last night he was leaving with "a
heavy heart," meaning that he would face tough talks in Washington
because of rising protectionist sentiments in the U.S. Congress.
Taiwan's 1986 trade surplus with Washington was the third largest,
after Japan and Canada. Siew said the talks, starting on April 14,
would cover U.S. Calls for Taiwan to open its market to American
products, purchases of major U.S. Machinery and power plant equipment,
import tariff cuts and protection of intellectual property. "I am
afraid this time we have to give more than take from our talks with
the U.S.," he said without elaborating. REUTER 

CIVIL SERVICE STRIKE DELAYS U.K. TRADE FIGURES
    LONDON, June 19 - 
Civil service industrial action started early this month will delay
the publication of May's U.K. Overseas trade figures, which had been
due out next Thursday, a Trade and Industry Department statement said.
A department spokesman said the figures will probably be put back by
about a month. The June trade figures, due in late July, will also be
delayed, he added. REUTER 

U.S. COMMERCE TRADE REPORT OMITS FREIGHT COSTS
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
The Commerce Department said on that insurance and freight costs for
imported goods of 1.45 billion dlrs were included in the February
trade deficit of 15.1 billion dlrs reported on Tuesday. The department
is required by law to wait 48 hours after the initial trade report to
issue a second report on a "customs value" basis, which eliminates the
freight and insurance charges from the cost of imports. Private-sector
economists emphasized that the Commerce Department was not revising
down the deficit by 1.45 billion dlrs but simply presenting the
figures on a different basis. A report in the Washington Post caused a
stir in the foreign exchanges today because it gave the impression,
dealers said, that the underlying trade deficit for February had been
revised downward. The Commerce department would like to have the law
changed to permit it to report both sets of figures simultaneously.
"My feeling is the second one is a better report but there's
legislation that requires us to delay it two days," said Robert
Ortner, Commerce undersecretary for economic affairs. "But this has
been going on for a long time and no one pays any attention to the
second figure." The 15.1 billion dlr February trade deficit compared
with a revised January deficit of 12.3 billion dlrs. The law requiring
a 48-hour delay in publishing the monthly trade figure excluding
freight and insurance was passed in 1979. Reportedly the feeling was
the first figure, which includes customs, freight and insurance,
allowed a better comparison with other countries that reported their
trade balances on the same basis. The second figure, which would
always be lower by deducting freight and insurance, presents the
deficit in a more favorable light for the Reagan administration.
Ortner said he would like to see the law changed to eliminate the
48-hour delay in reporting the two figures. "We're considering it," he
said, "It's one of those dinosaur laws and I think it's time has
come." The second figure, which would always be lower by deducting
freight and insurance, presents the deficit in a more favorable light
for the Reagan administration. Ortner said he would like to see the
law changed to eliminate the 48-hour delay in reporting the two
figures. "We're considering it," he said, "It's one of those dinosaur
laws and I think its time has come." Reuter 

JAPAN WARNS U.S. IT MAY RETALIATE IN TRADE DISPUTE
    TOKYO, A
CHILEAN TRADE SURPLUS NARROWS SLIGHTLY IN FEBRUARY
    Santiago, april 9 - 
chile's trade surplus narrowed to 102.2 mln dlrs in february, from
105.4 mln dlrs in the same month last year, but it was above the 18.2
-mln-dlr surplus recorded in january 1987, the central bank said.
Exports in february totalled 379.4 mln dlrs, 17.2 pct above the
january figure. Imports fell 9.2 pct from the previous month to 277.2
mln dlrs. The figures for the same month last year were 314 mln and
208.6 mln dlrs, respectively. The accumulated trade surplus over the
first two months of 1987 stands at 120.4 mln dlrs against 132.8 mln
dlrs the previous year. Reuter 

TAIWAN ANNOUNCES NEW ROUND OF IMPORT TARIFF CUTS
    TAIPEI, April 11 - 
Taiwan announced plans for another round of import tariff cuts on 862
foreign goods shortly before trade talks with Washington which
officials described as a move to help balance trade with the United
States. Wang Der-Hwa, Deputy Director of the Finance Ministry's
Customs Administration Department, told reporters the list of products
included 60 items asked by Washington. "The move is part of our
government efforts to encourage imports from our trading partners,
particularly from the United States," he said. He said the ministry
sent a proposal today to the cabinet that the tariffs on such products
as cosmetics, bicycles, apples, radios, garments, soybeans and
television sets be cut by between five and 50 pct. The cabinet was
expected to give its approval next Thursday and the new tariff cuts
would be implemented possibly starting on April 20, he added. Taiwan
introduced a sweeping tariff cut on some 1,700 foreign products last
January aimed at helping reduce its growing trade surplus with the
United States, the island's largest trading partner. Washington
however was not satisfied with the cuts and pressed for more
reductions as a way of cutting its huge trade deficit with Taipei.
Washington's deficit with Taipei rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S.
Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985. It widened to 3.61 billion
in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78 billion a year earlier,
Taiwan's official figures show. Today's announcement came before a
departure later today of a 15-member Taiwan delegation for Washington
for a series of trade talks with U.S. Officials. The delegation's
leader, Vincent Siew, told reporters last night he was leaving with "a
heavy heart," meaning that he would face tough talks in Washington
because of rising protectionist sentiments in the U.S. Congress.
Taiwan's 1986 trade surplus with Washington was the third largest,
after Japan and Canada. Siew said the talks, starting on April 14,
would cover U.S. Calls for Taiwan to open its market to American
products, purchases of major U.S. Machinery and power plant equipment,
import tariff cuts and protection of intellectual property. "I am
afraid this time we have to give more than take from our talks with
the U.S.," he said without elaborating. REUTER 

U.S. HOUSE SPEAKER DENIES TRADE BILL HURT STOCKS
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
House Speaker Jim Wright dismissed charges that the trade bill before
Congress contributed to the fall in stock prices on Wall Street. "That
is utterly ridiculous," the Texas Democrat told reporters. Treasury
Secretary James Baker and other administration officials over the
weekend pointed to the pending legislation -- which they brand too
protectionist -- as a key factor in the record-setting drop. Reuter 

LYNG DEFENDS U.S. EXPORT SUBSIDY PROGRAM
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said the United States will
continue its policy of subsidizing farm exports to regain lost markets
until there is a global agreement to end such subsidies. In an
interview with Reuters, Lyng also acknowledged he was troubled by the
prospect that the export enhancement program (EEP) could prove so
indispensable to boosting U.S. exports that the U.S. would have
difficulty abandoning it. "Yes, I'm troubled with that a little bit,"
he said. "There's no question about it, the longer you feed the calf
on the cow, the longer it is to wean it." In recent months, USDA has
offered subsidies on a growing list of commodities to an increasing
number of countries. Lyng called U.S. and European Community export
subsidies "just plain nonsensical as a long-term policy" and said he
saw an end to the expansion of the EEP. "I'm sure there's an end to
the expansion, but we are doing this to accomplish our goal which is
to regain the markets that we've lost, to keep our products
competitive and to let those, particularly the European Community,
who, we are convinced, are the worst offenders in terms of the export
subsidization, that we are prepared to continue to do this until we
can come to some agreement to put an end to it," he said. Reuter 

MIYAZAWA SEES EVENTUAL LOWER U.S. TRADE DEFICIT
    TOKYO, April 14 - 
Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference he
expects the U.S. Trade deficit to eventually start reflecting economic
fundamentals, which should influence exchange rates. The minister was
not referring to the U.S. Trade data to be released in Washington
later today. Miyazawa also said he told major industrial nations when
he was in Washington last week that present exchange rates are not
necessarily good. He had said earlier in Washington that current
exchange rates were within levels implied in the February Paris
currency accord. REUTER 

U.S.-CANADA TIES SEEN WORSE WITHOUT TRADE PACT
    WASHINGTON, June 18 - 
U.S.-Canadian ties could worsen if the two nations are unable to reach
a free trade pact, according to a study published by two nonpartisan
public policy research groups. The Cato Institute of Washington and
the Fraser Institute of Vancouver said removing the remaining tariffs
on cross border trade would benefit both countries. But Cato chairman
William Niskanen added "the two nations' generally harmonious trade
relations are probably not sustainable without a new agreement." The
United States and Canada, whose cross-border trade totaled about 125
billion dlrs last year, have been holding talks since last June on a
pact to end the few trade barriers remaining between their two
countries. The U.S. put a deadline on the talks of October 1, but both
sides have said an agreement is likely despite tough bargaining
remained. Niskanen said if no pact is reached, bilateral trade ties
could deteriorate because of Congressional pressure on President
Reagan to implement trade laws more aggressively, and this could hit
some Canadian trade practices. He noted Canada is seeking foreign
investment in its auto industry, which could put strains on the
considerable bilateral free trade in U.S. and Canadian autos and
parts. Niskanen also said the Canadian government is vulnerable to a
resurgence of economic nationalism which could restrict U.S. exports
to Canada. A free trade pact, backed by President Reagan and Prime
Minister Brian Mulroney, would open new markets for Canada and enable
its industries to achieve economies of scale, which would also help it
widen exports worldwide, he said. It would also increase the gross
national products of both countries. Niskanen said the goal of a pact
should be to end all tariffs within 10 years, lower subsidies on
exports, set rules for trade in services and investments, end curbs on
government procurement and agree ways to resolve trade disputes.
Reuter 

TOSHIBA, SHARP RESTRAIN LAP-TOP PC EXPORTS TO EC
    TOKYO, June 18 - 
Toshiba Corp <TSBA.T> and Sharp Corp <SHRP.T> decided to maintain
exports of lap-top personal computers to the European Community (EC)
at last year's levels, despite the halt of shipments to the U.S.,
Company spokesmen told Reuters. They said the voluntary restraints
were aimed at averting EC sanctions urged by European computer makers.
The Europeans feared Japanese personal computers would flood EC
markets after Washington imposed 100 pct tariffs last April. Toshiba
and Sharp together control about 40 pct of the personal computer
market in the EC, the Sharp spokesman said. Toshiba said exports of
T1100 and T3100 lap-top computers would continue at 5,000 units a
month for the time being. Sharp said exports to the EC of PC 7000
series lap-top personal computers would continue at last year's level
of 12,000 to 16,000 units a year. Washington imposed the tariffs
because of Japan's alleged failure to uphold a 1986 agreement on
semiconductor trade. REUTER 

US SAYS CANADIAN, ISRAELI PACTS SHOULD SPUR TRADE
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said on Monday that the U.S. free
trade agreements with Canada and Israel should help to pave the way
for liberalizing the global trading system. He said the Canadian and
Israeli pacts will not set back worldwide reform efforts under the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) as some critics feared
but help them. The GATT talks began a year ago in Punta del Este,
Uruguay to liberalize the global trading system and to include in it
trade in agriculture and services such as banking. Yeutter made his
remarks at a U.S.-Israeli trade meeting marking the second year of
their bilateral accord. The Canadian-U.S. pact, signed by two sides
two weeks ago, has yet been approved by the U.S. Congress and Canadian
Parliament. The two free trade agreements (FTA) would gradually remove
tariffs and other barriers to cross-border trade in goods and many
services. Yeutter said in the aftermath of the Canadian and Israeli
pacts "other countries have realized that if they want to continue to
have access to the world's largest market, they had better get serious
about improving the GATT." The pact with Israel, he said, is gradually
increasing shipments both ways and the Canadian pact will
substantially increase the gross national products in both countries.
Yeutter also said the Canadian and Israeli pacts should serve as
important precedents for progress in GATT. Yeutter said, "increasing
trade is one of the keys to enhanced political and economic stability
around the globe." He said, "a stronger GATT will enhance prosperity,
not only for advanced industrial nations, but also for other countries
that need to increase trade in order to better their standards of
living." Yeutter added it was important not to risk the progress made
in the Israeli and Canadian trade pacts by resorting to protectionism.
He was referring to trade legislation pending in Congress that would
force the United States to take retaliatory actions against nations
with large trade surpluses with the United States if the countries
practiced unfair trade. The legislation was prompted by a growing U.S.
trade deficit that hit 156 billion dlrs last year and is still rising.
Yeutter said the pressures for Congress to act were hard to resist,
but the pending legislation would undermine President Reagan's efforts
to liberalize the world trade. Yeutter renewed the threat of a White
House veto. He said, "President Reagan will veto any bill that
contains serious flaws, and I believe that veto would be sustained."
Reuter 

SHULTZ WELCOMES TOKYO ECONOMIC PACKAGE
    ROME, June 2 - 
U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz said the 6,000 billion yen
economic package announced by Tokyo last week went further than the
U.S. Had expected. But he said the U.S. Would not lift the selective
economic sanctions it imposed on Japanese imports in April until Tokyo
changed its sales policies concerning computer microchips. Speaking in
a televised news conference linking several European capitals, Shultz
said it was heartening that the Japanese had confronted the problem of
stimulating domestic and global demand. "There is an even greater
amount of stimulus than was originally thought," said Shultz, speaking
from Washington. "It is a lot more than nothing. It is more than was
talked about when (Prime Minister Yasuhiro) Nakasone was here. "It
involves a major reduction in tax rates and we believe that getting
the tax burden down is one way of stimulating the economy," he added.
But asked by Japanese reporters, also linked into the news conference,
whether the positive reaction meant the U.S. Might decide at next
week's Venice summit to lift its sanctions on some Japanese electronic
goods, Shultz replied: "These sanctions were undertaken on the basis
of an agreement that had been reached between the United States and
Japan on various sale practices and prices relating to the chip
market. "They will be lifted as the facts of change by Japan to the
agreement that it made become evident." He said U.S. Officials had
only been able to monitor the situation for a month and that it was
impossible to determine a trend on only one month's data. The U.S.
Imposed 100 pct import duties on personal computers, colour
televisions and power tools, alleging that Japan had violated last
September's bilateral agreement by selling computer chips at below
fair market value. Shultz said West Germany and other nations would
also do well to look at what they could do to stimulate demand. Asked
whether the U.S. Could reasonably ask its allies to take action to
stimulate the world economy without a bold American initiative to
reduce the size of the federal budget deficit, Shultz said moves were
already underway to tackle the problem. He said by the end of the
current fiscal year the deficit would probably be reduced by around 35
billion dlrs against last year, and that the budget being worked on
this year would contain a major reduction. REUTER 

BRAZIL'S SEPT TRADE SURPLUS HIGHEST OF THE YEAR
    RIO DE JANEIRO, Oct 20 - 
Brazil's September trade surplus was the best so far this year,
totalling 1.494 billion dlrs, compared with 1.434 billion dlrs in
August and 540 mln dlrs in September last year, Banco do Brasil's
Foreign Trade Department (Cacex) director Namir Salek said in a news
conference. September exports were 2.694 billion dlrs, slightly down
from 2.76 billion dlrs in August. Imports in September amounted to 1.2
billion dlrs, against 1.32 billion dlrs in August. Salek said the
accumulated surplus in the Jan-Sept period was 7.857 billion dlrs,
compared with 8.667 billion dlrs in a similar 1986 period. Coffee
accounted with 320 mln dlrs of exports, up from 222 mln dlrs in August
and 212 mln in September 1986, Salek said. The Cacex director said he
expected the country's trade surplus to average 800 mln dlrs in the
remaining three months of the year, estimating the year's overall
surplus to reach 10.2 billion dlrs, from 25.6 billion dlrs worth of
exports and 15.4 billion dlrs of imports. He attributed the good
surplus on exports of manufactured and semimanufactured goods. He
mentioned car exports, which accounted alone with sales of 617 mln
dlrs in the Jan-Sept period, against 194 mln dlrs in a similar 1986
period. Reuter 

TRADE ISSUES STRAINING EC'S PATIENCE WITH JAPAN
    BRUSSELS, April 13 - 
Member states of the European Community are starting to run out of
patience with Japan which they believe has repeatedly promised major
initiatives to open its market to imports, but as often made only
minor moves. Diplomatic sources here said several recent actions by EC
countries bear witness to a new disillusionment with the willingness,
or at least the ability, of the Japanese government to reduce its
massive trade surplus with the EC. However, they said an all-out trade
war may be far off, as EC states know they would suffer almost as much
as Japan. Senior EC diplomats gave a generally favourable reaction to
an EC executive commission proposal under which the EC could raise
tariffs on a range of Japanese products if the U.S. Carries out a
threat to make a similar move on April 17. The EC tariffs, which would
involve renouncing obligations entered into with the world trade body
GATT, would be designed to stop a diversion of exports to the EC
market from that of the U.S. The diplomats were meeting as Tokyo
announced that the EC's trade deficit with Japan reached a record 2.13
billion dlrs in March, up from 1.94 billion in February. In 1986,
Japanese exports to the EC totalled 30.67 billion dlrs, up 4.5 pct
from 1985, while EC exports to Japan fell one pct to 12.43 billion
dlrs. In Paris, trade minister Michel Noir said France has decided to
give Japan a taste of its own medicine. Burgeoning imports of
microwave ovens and of frozen Coquilles St Jacques will be restricted
by a strict application of French quality standards -- something EC
states say often happens to their own exports entering Japan. Britain
has threatened to withdraw the licences of Japanese banks and
insurance companies to operate in the City of London, because the
British Cable and Wireless company lost out in competition for a
Japanese telecommucations contract. However, British officials in
London have said that the government may have gone too far in implying
that it would take immediate drastic action unless the contract was
reopened. By contrast, West Germany, with the EC's most successful
economy, has never threatened Tokyo with sanctions, preferring to rely
on firm diplomacy and encouragement of its own industries to surmount
obstacles to export to Japan. The EC Commission itself has switched
its tactics in recent years, substituting general calls for action by
Japan to open its market with specific demands for moves in key areas.
At present, it is, for instance, pressuring Japan to end allegedly
discriminatory taxation of imported wines and spirits, to ensure EC
companies have a chance to win contracts for the building of a new
international airport, and to simplify certification and safety checks
on imported cars. EC officials say these tactics yield some benefits,
but often the Japanese announce modifications of their non-tariff
barriers which open the door to imports by only a token amount. They
stress, however, that any action must be taken by the EC as a whole to
stop beggar-my-neighbour action. One of the problems Britain could
face if it were to withdraw licences for Japanese banks would be that
the bankers would be welcomed with open arms in Frankfurt or
Amsterdam, they point out. REUTER 

AFRICAN STATES AGREE TO REGIONAL TARIFF CUTS
    ADDIS ABABA, June 19 - 
Fifteen countries in Eastern and Southern Africa have agreed to cut
tariffs on regional trade by 10 pct every two years up to 1996. A
statement by the Preferential Trade Area (PTA), which seeks to create
a common market stretching from Ethiopia in the north to Lesotho in
the south, said the governments would make the first tariff cut next
year. In 1996 they would assess the impact of the tariff reductions
and work out a new timetable for the complete elimination of all
barriers to trade by the year 2000. The PTA, set up in 1982, groups
Burnudi, the Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi,
Mauritius, Rwanda, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and
Zimbabwe. PTA sources said the agreement averted a split between
members wanting more progress towards free trade and weaker states
concerned about the effects on customs revenue. The reductions cover
only a common list of 300 or so widely traded commodities and goods
but PTA sources said the organisation planned to expand the list to
include 425 items. Reuter 

U.S. FEBRUARY TRADE TO BE REPORTED ON NEW BASIS
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
The February monthly merchandise trade figures to be reported Tuesday
by the Commerce Department will be on a new basis reflecting more
recent data, so avoiding future revisions of the monthly figure,
Commerce officials said. The overall January deficit of 14.8 billion
dlrs will be revised, but the February figure will be a final one,
officials said. Previously, the initial monthly figure has had to be
revised in subsequent months because of the time lag between the
report and the compiling of final estimates on imports and exports.
The reporting of the February trade data was delayed several weeks to
permit gathering latest figures on imports and exports to give a
clearer picture of the monthly trade balance. Reuter 

CANADA TRADE RISE SEEN AS START OF RECOVERY
    OTTAWA, April 9 - 
Canada's trade picture has brightened considerably, underscoring
economists' predictions the sector would post a long awaited recovery
this year. The federal government reported today that the monthly
surplus soared to 1.25 billion Canadian dlrs in February, double
January's 623 mln dlrs surplus and sharply higher than February 1986's
189 mln dlr tally. "Hopefully it's the beginning of a trend," said
Richardson Greenshields of Canada Ltd economist Susan Clark in
Toronto. Economists generally don't expect such large gains over the
next months, but are looking for an upward trend throughout the year.
"We thought the trade balance would improve ... over the year, and it
certainly looks as if this morning's figure is indicative of that,"
commented economist James Donegan at the Toronto securities firm of
Midland Doherty Ltd. Statistics Canada reported the surplus was driven
by a 23 pct gain in automobile product exports to a record 3.2 billion
dls in the month. "Recovery in the automotive sector helped push the
value of exports up by 5.9 pct in February," the agency said in its
monthly report. Total exports expanded to 10.44 billion dlrs from 9.85
billion dlrs in February, while imports slipped to 9.19 billion dlrs
from 9.23 billion dlrs. Economists have predicted the 1987 trade
surplus would end up three to five billion dlrs higher than last
year's dismal 10.1 billion dlr total. In 1985 the surplus was 17.48
billion dlrs. Money market analysts said the positive trade news
touched off a modest rally in the Canadian dollar, which rose to 76.85
U.S. cts on North American markets early this morning after closing at
76.58 cts Wednesday. The currency was hovering around 76.78 cts in
early afternoon trading. Economists have been banking on an improved
trade performance this year to stimulate an otherwise sluggish
Canadian economy. Money market analysts said the positive trade news
touched off a modest rally in the Canadian dollar, which rose to 76.85
U.S. cts on North American markets early this morning after closing at
76.58 cts Wednesday. The currency was hovering around 76.78 cts in
early afternoon trading. Economists have been banking on an improved
trade performance this year to stimulate an otherwise sluggish
Canadian economy. They say the country's consumers, who have been
spending at a torrid pace in recent years, will sharply curtail
outlays this year and this should help curtail the flow of imports
into the country. Meanwhile, demand for Canadian exports in the United
States, by far the country's largest market, is expected to be strong
as a result of a projected rise in American consumer spending and the
relatively low value of the Canadian currency. "We maintain what's
going to drive Canada's export performance is income growth in the
U.S.," said Midland's Donegan. But at the Bank of Nova Scotia, deputy
chief economist Warren Jestin was less optimistic about the U.S.
outlook and said it could be a mistake to read too much into
February's trade upturn. Jestin said, "Given the fact the U.S. economy
is showing signs of weakening--particularly car sales--it would
indicate that part of the strength (in Canada's trade figures) is
probably transitory." Reuter 

SPRINKEL SAYS TAX HIKE WOULD NOT REDUCE DEFICIT
    WASHINGTON, April 9 - 
Council of Economic Advisers chairman Beryl Sprinkel said the Reagan
Administration remains strongly opposed to a tax increase, including
18 billion dlrs of new revenues in the budget plan by Congressional
Democrats. "We believe that significant increases in taxes would not
reduce deficits and could have adverse effects on growth," Sprinkel
told the House Rules Committee. He said the Administration wanted to
continue its policy of gradually reducing deficits through restraining
government spending and promoting economic growth. Sprinkel said
cutting the budget deficit was the best way to lower the trade
deficit. Reuter 

EC, U.S. REMAIN DIVIDED OVER PASTA DISPUTE
    BRUSSELS, June 29 - 
Top-level talks last week between the European Community (EC) and the
United States failed to resolve a dispute over pasta which may provoke
new trade frictions next month, diplomatic sources said. The U.S.
Insists the EC complies with what it regards as an unambiguous ruling
from the world trade body GATT and dismantles an export subsidy system
which has led to Italy taking an increasing share of the U.S. Pasta
market. The sources said the EC, which currently provides subsidies of
around 16 cents a pound, offered a compromise in last week's talks in
Brussels but that this was rejected by the U.S. U.S. Assistant Special
Trade Representative Jim Murphy has returned to Washington ahead of a
theoretical July 1 deadline for agreement, set last August when the
two sides resolved a related dispute over EC restrictions on U.S.
Citrus imports. The diplomatic sources said the citrus issue could be
reopened if the pasta dispute was not solved quickly. It was also
possible the U.S. Would reimpose a 40 pct tariff on EC pasta, lifted
when the citrus row was settled. But the two sides may agree to extend
the deadline for a few days as EC Commissioners Willy de Clercq and
Frans Andriessen are due to visit Washington from July 7 to 10. REUTER


REAGAN SEEKS ROMANIA TRADE CONCESSION
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
President Reagan called for continued nondiscriminatory treatment for
Romanian exports to the United States in the face of congressional
opposition because of the Bucharest government's record on human
rights. A White House statement said Reagan's decision to press for
continuation of so-called Most Favored Nation (MFN) status for Romania
had been "exceptionally difficult" and came after "all options were
seriously considered." But the statement said that despite concerns
about human rights abuses by the Bucharest government, the president
had decided that should be continued because it helped stimulate
emigration from Romania and gave the United States influence on human
rights practices there. The statement was issued as Reagan sent to
Congress requests for one-year extensions of MFN for Romania, Hungary
and China. The House of Representatives has attached to a trade bill
legislation that would temporarily deny MFN for Romania pending
certification by Reagan that the country had made progress on human
rights. There is no controversy over continuation of MFN for Hungary
and China. Reuter 

U.S. STUDY SAYS TARIFFS AND QUOTAS COULD BACKFIRE
    WASHINGTON, June 1 - 
The use of tariffs and quotas to reduce the flow of foreign goods into
the United States will do little to cut the nation's swelling trade
deficit, a government study said. In fact, the Federal Trade
Commission (FTC) report said, such protectionist policies could make
U.S. Products less competitive in the world marketplace by raising the
cost of imported products that are re-exported in different forms.
"Such policies are much more likely to hurt, rather than help, the
productive capabilities of the U.S. Economy," it said. The 218-page
report, written by FTC economists John Hilke and Philip Nelson, blamed
the rising trade shortfall, which climbed to a record 166.3 billion
dlrs last year, on shifting currency exchange rates and growing U.S
consumer demand. Other factors commonly blamed for the deficit, such
as foreign trade practices, deteriorating U.S. Industrial
competitiveness, high labour costs and government restrictions on
mergers, added little to the problem, it said. "Although each
industry's competitiveness affects the level of imports and exports in
that industry, in general we find that there have been no significant
industry-specific changes affecting competitiveness that would explain
the increase in the overall trade deficit," the study said. "To the
extent any government action is needed to deal with the trade
deficits, policies should focus on economy-wide phenomena such as
exchange rates and relative economic growth," the FTC study said.
Supporting its conclusion that broad-based economic shifts were the
cause of the increase in the trade deficit, the report said it found
that nearly all U.S. Industries lost some domestic market share to
foreign competitors in the 1980s. It also said it found a "fairly
direct relationship" between the increased trade deficit and the
influence of shifting currency exchange rates, U.S. Economic growth
and domestic demand for goods and services, which has outpaced foreign
consumer demand. The study examined seven factors which have been
commonly blamed for the trade deficit: foreign government subsidies
and trade barriers to protect foreign industries, a lack of investment
in U.S. Industry, declining research and development in U.S. Industry,
high labour costs, union work rules, the oil prices rises of the 1970s
and U.S. Antitrust regulations. In each case, the study found little
or no evidence that the factor had any impact on the trade deficit.
REUTER 

JAPAN WILL NOT RETALIATE NOW AGAINST U.S. TARIFFS
    TOKYO, April 18 - 
Japan does not plan to take immediate retaliatory action against
implementation of U.S. Tariffs on some Japanese electronic goods, the
minister of international trade and industry, Hajime Tamura, said in a
statement. Japan requested bilateral consultations in accordance with
Article 23-1 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in
Washington yesterday. Tamura said there was deep regret over the U.S.
Measures, which will impose 100 pct tariffs on about 300 mln dlrs
worth of Japanese imports of some small computers, colour television
sets and power tools. REUTER 

ECUADOR POSTS 71.3 MLN DLR 8-MTH TRADE DEFICIT
    QUITO, Oct 20 - 
Ecuador posted a trade deficit of 71.3 mln dlrs in the first eight
months of 1987, compared with a surplus of 468.6 mln dlrs in the same
period of 1986, central bank figures show. Ecuador suspended oil
exports, which made up 55 pct of the value of its total exports in
1986, for five months this year after an earthquake in March shattered
the country's pipeline. The central bank said the value of exports
from January to August 1987 stood at 1.132 billion dlrs and imports
1.204 billion dlrs. Net international monetary reserves declined to
57.5 mln dlrs at end-September from 146.8 mln dlrs at end- September
1986. Reuter 

WHITE HOUSE STANDING FIRM ON JAPANESE SANCTIONS
    WASHINGTON, April 8 - 
Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said U.S. trade sanctions
against Japan were likely take effect on April 17 in spite of a "full
court press" by Japanese officials to avoid them. "All indications are
they will take effect," he said. "I would say Japan is applying the
full court press ... They certainly are putting both feet forward in
terms of explaining their position," Fitzwater told reporters. He
noted high level meetings on the trade dispute are underway here but
said, "I don't think there's anything I can report and I don't believe
there's been any official movement." REUTER 

CAIRNS GROUP SAID INFLUENTIAL IN TRADE TALKS
    BANGKOK, Oct 19 - 
Australian Minister for Trade Negotiations Michael Duffy said his
country and Third World commodity producers have formed an effective
lobby group against farm export subsidies and market access
restrictions. Duffy told a press conference the Cairns Group of 14
major agricultural producers, to which Australia and Thailand belong,
has emerged as an important third force in any multilateral trade
talks. "There's no doubt that the Cairns Group is being seen as a
third force to be reckoned with both inside the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade and in other international trade negotiations," he
said. Duffy, here on a three-day visit after talks in the United
States, The European Community (EC) and Latin America, said
considerable progress has been made by the group towards fighting
costly protectionist policies pursued by developed countries. The
minister said the EC Commission's new farm trade paper will recognise
the heavy financial burdens imposed by its Common Agricultural Policy
and its future expansion. He said the Reagan Administration has also
displayed a determination to resist the currently strong protectionist
sentiment in the U.S. Congress. Reuter 

DEFICIT CUTS SEEN UNABLE TO CURE TRADE DEFICIT
    WASHINGTON, April 8 - 
Financial analysts say they are pleased with congressional moves to
trim next year's federal budget deficit but believe the actions will
do little to help improve the U.S. trade deficit or buoy the economy.
The House of Representatives is expected to vote tomorrow to approve a
trillion-dollar budget blueprint for the coming fiscal year that
reduces the deficit by 38 billion dlrs. Similarly, the Senate Budget
Committee has approved a plan that would cut federal red ink by about
37 billion dlrs next year. "In terms of the economy, 37-38 billion
dlrs is infinitesimal, so cuts of this magnitude will have little
impact on the economy and the trade deficit," said Stanley Collander,
a Touche Ross federal budget policy analyst. "At best, it will have a
small positive effect," Collander said in an interview. Federal
Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker has repeatedly told Congress that
cutting federal red ink would go a long way to help reduce the massive
trade deficit and also help ease some of the downward pressure on the
value of the dollar. The U.S. government has attempted to remedy the
trade imbalance by driving down the value of the dollar. But Volcker
has warned that a further fall in the dollar's value is fraught with
danger. Such a decline, he has said, could refuel inflation as
imported goods become more expensive and chase away foreign capital
needed to finance the federal budget deficit. In addition, in
February, U.S. officials meeting with other major industrialized
nations in Paris agreed that the value of the dollar had dropped
enough and that world exchange rates should be stabilized at around
current levels. As part of that agreement, Japan and West Germany
agreed to take steps to stimulate their economies and the United
States agreed to cut its budget deficit. The alternative to driving
down the dollar any further as a way to deal with the trade deficit,
Volcker said recently, is to reduce U.S. consumption, particularly
federal spending. "If you don't deal with the budget deficit,
everything else you do is going to be counterproductive," Volcker said
in recent testimony before the Senate Banking Committee. Volcker also
said he would prefer to further tighten the government's purse strings
than have the Fed tighten the credit supply if action was needed to
fight inflationary pressures or to assure the continued flow of
foreign capital into the United States. Analysts say that Fed
tightening now could choke off the current modest economic expansion
and threaten a recession. Kemper Financial Services economist John
Silvia stressed that any deficit reduction was better than none. But
he said the size of the cuts under consideration were not enough to
give the Federal Reserve Board the flexibility it needs to steer the
economy or to keep the value of the dollar from plunging further in
world exchange markets. "There's no doubt that some deficit reduction
helps, but if your objective is to stabilize the dollar and perserve
the Fed's flexibility to conduct monetary policy, then the answer is,
it's not enough," Silvia told Reuters. The U.S. trade deficit has
become one of the government's most vexing and persistent problems.
The 1986 deficit was 169.8 billion dlrs and there is as yet little
indication that this year's figure will be any lower, though
administration officials have predicted it will drop by about 20 to 30
billion dlrs by year's end. In the past, Volcker has joked that he
never lost sleep worrying whether Congress would cut too much fat from
the federal budget. On the other hand, he also has made it clear he is
not attached to the gradually declining deficit ceilings set for the
1986-1991 period by last year's Gramm-Rudman balanced budget law.
While the new law set a ceiling of 108 billion dlrs for next year's
federal deficit, both the House and Senate Budget Committees have
conceded that their budget plans would fall short of the deficit
reduction goal by about 25 billion dlrs. "For political reasons, 35 to
40 billion dlrs is about the most you're going to get" out of Congress
at the present time, said Touche Ross's Collander. "To do something
more than that would be extraordinary, remarkable and very, very
difficult." Collander said the real danger for Congress was to end up
short of the deficit reduction goal set by its Budget panels. "To an
extent, this has become the minimum acceptable reduction level," he
explained. "Anything less than that will now look like a failure to
Wall Street." The budget plan now under debate on the House floor
would lower an estimated 171 billion dlr deficit for the year
beginning on October one to about 133 billion dlrs by cutting defense
and domestic programs by 38 billion dlrs from their anticipated
spending levels for next year. The Senate Budget Committee has called
for a deficit of nearly 134 billion dlrs with about 18.5 billion dlrs
in new taxes and about the same amount in spending cuts. Reuter 

MALAYSIA'S 1986 MANUFACTURING EXPORTS RISE 24 PCT
    KUALA LUMPUR, April 13 - 
Malaysia's manufacturing exports rose by 24.5 pct to 15.1 billion
ringgit in 1986, chairman of the Export Promotion Council Ahmad Sarji
Abdul Hamind said. The improved export performance was led by
electrical and electronic products, textiles, footwear, clothing,
processed food, timber, chemical and rubber products, he told a news
conference. However, total gross exports for the year declined by 5.6
pct to 35.9 billion ringgit from 38 billion in 1985 due to a fall in
major commodity exports and weak prices, he said. REUTER 

SHULTZ PREDICTS RAPID NARROWING OF U.S. TRADE GAP
    SINGAPORE, June 18 - 
Secretary of State George Shultz said the U.S. Would erase its large
foreign trade deficit faster than many predicted, and the consequences
for its trade partners might be traumatic. "The U.S. Economy will
inevitably make the adjustment necessary to move from a deficit to a
surplus trade balance in order to service our growing foreign debt,"
he told a conference attended by the six members of the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations and their leading Western friends. "In my
view, this will happen more rapidly than many observers now predict."
"The universal strategy of aggressive export-led growth is becoming
less effective," Shultz said. "It is not arithmetically possible for
every country in the world to be a net exporter at the same time. The
U.S. Deficit, which we all decry, has been in a sense the place into
which everyone's export-led strategy for growth has gone." "The huge
surpluses of Japan and (West) Germany have fed on this deficit, so
something will have to give and it will be possibly a traumatic
experience," he added. "While you must keep up the pressure on us to
eschew protectionist policies, you must act too," Shultz said. "I can
do a better job of convincing the Congress to leave our door open to
imports if more of our trading partners open their doors wider," he
told the group, which included representatives from Australia, Canada,
Japan, New Zealand and the European Community. REUTER 

YEUTTER ALMOST SURE JAPAN WILL NOT RETALIATE
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he was almost sure
Japan would not retaliate against tariffs President Reagan slapped on
300 mln dlrs of Japanese electronic goods today. "I'd say it's 99 plus
pct sure that it (the tariffs) will not provoke a retaliation on
American products," Yeutter told Cable News Network. "Japan has far
too much at stake in this relationship (with the United States) to
seriously entertain thoughts of retaliation," Yeutter said. Earlier
today, Reagan imposed 100 pct tariffs on a range of Japanese goods in
retaliation for Japan's alleged violation of a bilateral pact
governing semiconductor trade. Yeutter did say that U.S. farm products
would be targeted if Tokyo decided to hit back. "If they (Japan) were
to retaliate, it would probably be on something like American
agricultural products," he said. "But I really think the chances of
that happening are between slim and none," he added. Reuter 

U.S. SAID UNFAIRLY PROTECTING DEFENSE INDUSTRY
    LONDON, June 18 - 
Britain's Defence Minister George Younger said the U.S. Was unfairly
protecting its defence industry, and this could lead to British firms
demanding counter-measures. Younger told a U.S. Chamber of Commerce
meeting that U.S. Legislators were failing to realise "the true nature
of the two-way street in terms of ideas, technology and equipment. A
British parliamentary report said that up to March British firms had
been awarded just 34 mln dlrs worth of contracts for the Strategic
Defence Initiative, compared with the 1.5 billion dlrs Britain had
hoped to secure. The committee said U.S. Technology export
restrictions and "selectiveness" towards foreign contractors had
denied British competitors more lucrative orders and largely excluded
them from technological research for SDI. Younger said London had
given U.S. Companies contracts under conditions of fair and open
competition. "All we ask is for our companies to be given similar
opportunities," he added. If new American legislation aimed at curbing
unfair subsidies was used to exclude foreign suppliers it would not be
surprising if British firms pressed for retaliatory measures, Younger
said. REUTER 

INVESTMENT CRUCIAL TO U.S. TEXTILE RECOVERY
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
With more private investment, not more protection, the U.S. textile
industry could become competitive with the most modern foreign
producers, analysts from two congressional agencies said today. The
Office of Technology Assessment, a nonpartisan arm of Congress told a
House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing there was still
concern for the future of parts of the U.S. textile and apparel
industry, but there was more reason for optimism than a few years ago.
"While textile producers are making significant investments, they
could do more," OTA analyst Henry Kelly said. The Congressional Budget
Office (CBO), the nonpartisan budget analysis arm of Congress, said
federal loans or loan guarantees would be preferable options for
Congress rather than increased trade protection which could lead to
foreign retaliation. CBO analyst Edward Gramlich said past trade
protections, first imposed in the 1950's have had only a small benefit
for profits and investments of domestic firms. Trade Subcommittee
chairman, Rep. Sam Gibbons, said the agencies analyses seemed to agree
with his opinion against congressional approval of protectionist
textile quota legislation aimed mainly at Western Europe, Japan and
other Asian textile producing countries. President Reagan last year
vetoed a textile protection bill but it was reintroduced in this
session of Congress and is expected to be voted on in the House this
year. However, approval this year is in doubt because passage of a
major trade bill without specific protections for textiles showed a
weakening of support for the legislation. Most U.S. producers have
fallen behind other foreign producers in the use of modern textile and
apparel production equipment and net imports are growing faster than
the domestic markets, Kelly said. He added that private investment in
the textile and clothing industry in 1983 of 0.5 pct was less than
one-seventh the average manufacturing investment of 3.9 pct. Despite
existing import quotas and tariffs, imports of textiles grew 26 pct in
1986 and imports of apparel grew 14 pct while U.S. production rose
only 1.9 pct. "The traditional industry seems destined to be replaced
by new technology, imports, or some combination of both. While the
industry may not be able to compete in all domestic markets that it
enjoyed twenty years ago, the results of our research indicate that
portions of the domestic market can be recovered, and that exports can
be expanded," Kelly said. Reuter 

SEOUL ANNOUNCES MORE TARIFF CUTS FOR U.S.
    SEOUL, June 1 - 
South Korea will cut import taxes on 50 goods, including construction
equipment, cigarettes and tobacco, to help reduce its trade surplus
with the United States, the Finance Ministry said today. The tariff
cuts of between five and 30 pct will take effect on July 1. South
Korea ran a trade surplus of 7.3 billion dlrs with Washington in 1986,
sharply up from 4.3 billion in 1985. Today's announcement brings to
157 the number of goods for which similar measures were taken this
year, a ministry official said. The 157 are among about 290 items on
which Washington has asked Seoul to lower tariffs. "This is in line
with the government's policy to limit our trade surplus with the
United States to help reduce trade friction between the two
countries," said the official. Reuter 

ARMISTICE ELUDES EC AND U.S. IN SPAGHETTI WAR
     BRUSSELS, June 29 - 
Talks between the European Community (EC) and the United States have
failed to settle a trade dispute over pasta, an EC Commission
spokesman said. Diplomatic sources said the dispute could provoke new
trade friction unless it was settled soon. Washington is insisting
that the EC comply with what it regards as an unambiguous ruling from
the world trade body GATT and cut export subsidies which have allowed
Italy to take an increasing share of the U.S. pasta market. The EC
provides subsidies of about 16 cents a pound on pasta exports. The
spokeswoman said the talks foundered on the question of how much the
subsidy should be cut. Reuter 

BRITISH MINISTER SAYS HE WARNED TOKYO OF SANCTIONS
    LONDON, April 11 - 
A British minister said he had given the Japanese government a clear
warning of sanctions against Japanese companies if Tokyo did not allow
more access to its internal markets "and it was clearly understood."
Corporate Affairs Minister Michael Howard said on his return from a
visit to Japan he thought the Japanese were beginning to appreciate
the need to be "fair and open" about access to their own markets. At
an airport news conference Howard denied opposition charges that his
trip had been a failure because he had returned empty-handed. "I did
what I set out to do. I was sent to deliver a clear message to the
Japanese government, and I delivered it very clearly, and it has been
clearly understood." Howard said that under the Financial Services Act
the govenment had considerable flexibility in taking sanctions against
Japanese companies and finance houses operating in Britain. "It is not
simply a question of withdrawing or refusing operating licences. We
can ban firms from certain countries from carrying out certain kinds
of business, while allowing them to carry out other kinds." "I hope we
don't have to use these powers, but I made it clear in Japan that if
our timetable isn't met, we shall use them." He said it would be
unfortunate if Britain and Japan became involved in a tit-for-tat
exchange, adding that Japan gained more than anyone else from an open
trading relationship. "I think they are beginning to appreciate that
if this relationship is to continue, it is very important for them to
be fair and open about access to their own markets." On the question
of the British firm Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L>, which is trying
to win a significant share of telecommunications contracts in Japan,
Howard said he had told the Japanese this was being widely regarded as
a test case. He said there were signs of movement on the case. Cable
and Wireless was due to take part in talks in Japan next Tuesday, he
said. Earlier this week British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said
Britain could not go it alone on sanctions against Japan, but would
have to coordinate action with its European Community partners.
Community sources said after a meeting of trade officials yesterday
that the group might impose steep new tariffs on a range of Japanese
goods to prevent diversion from United States markets if Washington
imposes trade sanctions against Tokyo as it has threatened. REUTER 

U.S. ASKS CONGRESS TO REVISE TARIFF CATEGORIES
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
The Administration asked Congress to replace the U.S. tariff schedule
with a new system to bring it into line with international tariff
categories, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said. The new
system will add such items as fiber optics and more accurately define
new composites, items not widely traded when the current schedule was
devised some 30 years ago. Yeutter said the Harmonized System, as the
new schedule is called, will change tariff categories and definitions
to meet the present-day needs of exporters and importers, but they
should pay about the same rates of duties. Yeutter said, "American
exporters will find it far easier to deal with one standardized
worldwide system than the variety of differing systems which they now
face." He said the new system ended 12 years of multinational
negotiations to create the unified tariff schedule. Yeutter said
government and business moves are based on data from tariff schedules
and the new system will improve knowledge of trade flows and the
quality of decision-making. He said 56 nations pledged to bring their
standards under the new system, with about half expected to join the
system by January 1988. reuter 

BANGLADESH'S TRADE GAP TO WIDEN IN 1987/88
    DHAKA, June 28 - 
Bangladesh's trade gap is expected to widen in fiscal 1987/88
beginning on July 1 after the government relaxed restrictions on some
imports including luxury cars. The country has set its export target
for the year at 1.1 billion U.S. Dlrs against imports of 1.805 billion
dlrs, compared with 1986/7's one billion dlrs of export earnings and
1.113 billion dlrs of imports. Commerce Minister Mohammad Abdul Munim
said the changes were aimed at encouraging export oriented industries
to boost foreign exchange earnings and imports of essential machinery
and raw materials, to increase industrial production. The government
was easing procedures to enhance incentives especially for exporters
of textiles and frozen food and importers of industrial machinery and
raw materials, Munim told reporters. Commerce Ministry officials told
Reuters the import policy covered only commercial imports amounting to
1.805 billion dlrs. Imports of capital machinery and foodgrains by the
government were not included in the policy, they added. They said the
country's total import bill (both commercial and other imports) was
expected to reach 2.7 billion dlrs in the new year compared with 2.4
billion dlrs in 1986/87. The minister said ending restrictions on
imports of cars and dropping 50 pct sales tax on small cars would not
harm the economy. Munim said Bangladesh feared a further drop in
prices for its main export jute, "which will certainly affect our
export earnings" in the coming year. Bangladesh's jute exports fell to
410 mln dlrs from 500 mln in 1986/87, according official figures. But
Munim said exports of non-traditional items, which accounted for over
40 pct of total exports this year, would play a key role in achieving
the 1987/88 export target. REUTER 

U.S. SENATORS PROPOSE BAN ON TOSHIBA IMPORTS
    WASHINGTON, June 18 - 
Three U.S. Senators said they will propose a temporary ban on imports
of all Toshiba products due to the company's illegal sales of
sensitive high-technology goods to the Soviet Union. Senator Jake
Garn, John Heinz and Richard Selby said at a hearing of the senate
banking committee on export control, they will offer the proposal as
part of a major trade bill when it is brought before the senate this
summer. Garn, a Utah Republican, said "I am talking about specific
retribution on a company that endangers the security of their own
country and ours." Reuter 

JAPAN GIVEN LITTLE HOPE OF AVOIDING U.S. SANCTIONS
    TOKYO, April 8 - 
A top U.S. Official said Japan has little chance of convincing the
U.S. To drop threatened trade sanctions, despite the efforts of a
Japanese team that left for Washington today. Michael Armacost, Under
Secretary of State for Political Affairs, was asked at a press
conference whether Japan's moves to boost its domestic economy and
open its markets could persuade the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on
Japanese imports said, and replied: "...It is probably too early for
the figures to demonstrate that the situation has turned around and to
permit the result you have described." Armacost said the U.S. Hopes
Japan will take steps to lift its domestic economy and reduce
dependence on exports, remove barriers to imports and settle
outstanding trade issues. "There are obvious problems at the moment in
the trade area, but we do not wish those problems to divert attention
from important areas of cooperation that continue to exist on security
and political issues," he said. "The question is whether through
cooperative actions between our governments we can reduce the (trade)
imbalance or whether Congress takes action to reduce it through
protectionist legislation," he said. REUTER 

 German May trade surplus 10.6 billion marks (April
surplus 8.9 billion) - official




JAPAN CONCERNED AT EC TRADE THREATS - MINISTER
    TOKYO, June 2 - 
Japan is disappointed at the recent threats of trade retaliation from
the European Community (EC) just as the trade situation between the
two is improving, Japanese Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura
said. "I am deeply concerned that the EC has moved to take a harsher
line toward Japan despite this tangible improvement," he said in a
speech prepared for delivery at the opening of a new centre designed
to improve understanding between the two sides. Last week, foreign
ministers of the 12 EC nations agreed to impose tariffs on a range of
unspecified Japanese electrical goods unless Tokyo opened its markets
more to EC exports. Tamura referred to a 55 pct rise in Japanese
imports of EC manufactured goods in the year ended March 31. "I feel
this is a strong step on the road to balance through expansion."
"While I do not deny the existence of the trade deficit between Japan
and the EC, I believe it should be rectified not by reducing trade
through import restrictions or export restraints, but by expanding the
(overall) trade," Tamura said. REUTER 

JAPAN DETAILS PLAN TO STAVE OFF TRADE PROBLEMS
     TOKYO, April 17 - 
Japan's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) has drawn up a detailed plan
calling for large tax cuts and an increase in government purchases of
foreign goods, the head of the committee working out the plan,
Junichiro Koizumi, said. The plan will also urge the government to
double 1985's official development assistance to 7.6 billion dlrs
within five years instead of seven as the government had promised,
senior LDP officials said at a press conference. LDP executive council
chairman Shintaro Abe will explain the plan to U.S. Officials when he
visits the U.S. On April 19. Abe's visit is to prepare for Prime
Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's talks with President Ronald Reagan later
this month. Koizumi said the LDP plan will not specify the size of the
tax cut or the amount of domestic demand to be stimulated. However,
top LDP executives will work out figures so that Abe will be able to
offer specifics to U.S. Officials. The proposed increase in
procurement of foreign goods by the government will probably include
the purchase of super computers, LDP officials said. According to the
plan, Japan will also strive to solve specific trade problems with
other nations and will encourage flows of funds to developing
countries, the officials said. The LDP expects the measures to prop up
the economy and lessen trade problems with the U.S., They added. The
basic ideas of the LDP's plan were presented to and welcomed by
monetary authorities of the major industrial nations in Washington
last week, they said. The LDP plan will form the basis for the last of
several packages to stimulate Japanese domestic demand and will be
unveiled by the government in late May. REUTER 

U.S. FEBRUARY TRADE TO BE REPORTED ON NEW BASIS
    WASHINGTON, April 13 - 
The February monthly merchandise trade figures to be reported Tuesday
by the Commerce Department will be on a new basis reflecting more
recent data, so avoiding future revisions of the monthly figure,
Commerce officials said. The overall January deficit of 14.8 billion
dlrs will be revised, but the February figure will be a final one,
officials said. Previously, the initial monthly figure has had to be
revised in subsequent months because of the time lag between the
report and the compiling of final estimates on imports and exports.
The reporting of the February trade data was delayed several weeks to
permit gathering latest figures on imports and exports to give a
clearer picture of the monthly trade balance. Reuter 

JAPAN IN LAST-DITCH EFFORT TO AVERT TARIFFS
    WASHINGTON, April 8 - 
Senior Japanese officials tomorrow open talks with American trade
negotiators in a last-ditch effort to avert new high U.S. tariffs to
be imposed on a wide variety of Japanese electronic exports. Makoto
Kuroda, vice minister of Japan's Ministry of International Trade and
Industry (MITI), is to hold two days of meetings with the Deputy U.S.
Trade Representative, Michael Smith, and the Under Secretary of
Commerce, Bruce Smart. The new tariffs, to go into effect on April 17,
are in retaliation for Japan's failure to adhere to an agreement to
end dumping semiconductors in world markets at below cost and to open
its home market to U.S. semiconductor shipments. They are to be
imposed on goods which use semiconductors, including television and
audio equipment and computers. Both U.S. and Japanese officials have
said there was little likelihood the talks would do anything to avert
the 100 pct duties on 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese shipments.
President Reagan announced the planned tariffs on March 27 after he
said that close monitoring of the July 1986 U.S.-Japanese
semiconductor pact convinced U.S. officials that Japan was not
honoring the agreement. In making the annoucement, Reagan said "I am
committed to the full enforcement of our trade agreements designed to
provide American industry with free and fair trade." Trade analysts
said his move was aimed as much at Japan's semiconductor trade
practices, which are said to have injured the U.S. semiconductor
industry, as Congress, which has complained about presidential
timidity on trade issues. Congressional Democrats have pledged to
enact aggressive trade laws to counter what they contend has been
Reagan's inaction to redress the growing U.S. trade deficit, which
last year reached 169.8 billion dlrs. About one-third of the deficit
was with Japan. Reagan said there were recent signs Japan was
beginning to adhere to the pact and that was why he was not
terminating it. Kuroda said on leaving Tokyo today he had no new
proposals but did have an explanation of the semiconductor situation.
He told the daily newspaper Ashai Shimbun that Reagan's decision was
based on inaccurate data and an exaggerated sense of MITI's power to
control Japanese traders. "The United States has excessive
expectations.," he said. To stabilize supply-demand relations which
have been disrupted by excess inventories since 1985 will take some
time." He also said that U.S. firms had not been aggressive enough in
trying to sell in the Japanese market. Reuter 

SINGAPORE EXTERNAL TRADE GAINS 8.8 PCT IN QUARTER
    SINGAPORE, April 13 - 
Singapore's external trade grew 8.8 pct in first quarter 1987, against
a 12.4 pct decline in the same period last year and two pct growth in
the previous quarter, the Trade Development Board said. It said
exports over the period rose by 8.7 pct to 12.38 billion dlrs and
imports by 8.9 pct to 14.64 billion for a trade deficit of 2.26
billion, against a 2.06 billion deficit in the same 1986 period and
1.78 billion deficit previously. The growth was attributed to the
strength of non-oil trade, especially computers and computer parts,
electronic components and garments, it said. REUTER 

BALDRIGE TO LAUNCH FAR EAST TRADE DRIVE
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige leaves on Saturday on a
10-day trip to the Far East to help spur U.S. Trade and improve
business relations with China, South Korea and the Philippines, U.S.
Officials say. Baldrige will also stop in Hong Kong to meet British
officials and local U.S. And Hong Kong businessmen. The U.S. Last year
had major deficits with three of its Asian trading partners -- South
Korea 7.1 billion dlrs, Hong Kong 6.4 billion and China 2.1 billion.
The deficit with the Philippines was 800 mln dlrs. Baldrige will meet
South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan and Trade Minister Rha Woong Bae
on Monday to discuss opening South Korean markets to more U.S. Goods.
Baldrige will be in Peking from April 21 to 24. He will meet Zheng
Tuobin, minister for foreign economic relations and trade, attend a
meeting of the U.S.-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade and
address a management and training organisation. However, U.S.
Officials said a chief purpose of Baldrige's visit would be to discuss
relaxed U.S. Rules for transferring modern technology to Chinese
industries. In Hong Kong, Baldrige will hold meetings on April 27 with
Governor David Wilson and Trade and Industry Secretary Eric Ho, as
well as addressing the American Chamber of Commerce. U.S. Officials
said Baldrige will meet Philippines President Corazon Aquino on April
28 to show continued U.S. Support for her government and to discuss
steps it could take to improve the atmosphere for American investment.
He will also will meet Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin and Trade and
Industry Secretary Jose Concepcion. REUTER 

REAGAN CALLS FOR VIGILANCE ON CERTAIN EXPORTS
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
President Reagan said the Commerce Department should be vigilant in
preventing the flow of strategic technology from reaching the the
Soviet Union and other communist countries. He was speaking at the
swearing in of C. William Verity as Secretary of the Commerce
Department. Verity said the U.S. should make certain that militarily
sensitive high technology does not wind up in communist nations. But
he also said the U.S. must reduce the list of products of a
nontechnological nature, thereby allowing manufacturers to increase
exports and jobs. Reuter 

JAPAN MUST TRY HARDER TO CUT SURPLUS - MINISTER
    TOKYO, June 19 - 
Japan must try harder to reduce its trade surplus or the yen will come
under renewed upward pressure, Economic Planning Minister Tetsuo
Kondo. He told a press luncheon he hoped Japan could cut its current
account surplus by some 10 billion dlrs a year until it is reduced to
some 50 to 60 billion dlrs. In the fiscal year ended March 31 the
surplus totalled 93.76 billion dlrs, or about 4.5 pct of GNP. The
6,000 billion yen economic stimulation package the government unveiled
late last month would help slash Japan's current account surplus by
five to six billion dlrs, he said. REUTER 

JAPANESE OFFICIAL TAKES DATA TO MICROCHIP TALKS
    TOKYO, April 8 - 
Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) Vice Minister
Makoto Kuroda leaves for Washington today with data he hopes will
refute U.S. Charges Japan has violated a pact on microchip trade. A
three-man Japanese trade team is already in Washington laying the
groundwork for talks between Kuroda and Deputy U.S. Trade
Representative Michael Smith aimed at persuading the U.S. Not to
impose tariffs on certain Japanese products. But Kuroda said he is
taking no new proposals. "I have nothing in my briefcase except an
explanation of the current situation," Kuroda told the daily newspaper
Asahi Shimbun. Kuroda said the U.S. Decision was based on incorrect
data and an exaggerated sense of MITI's power to control market
forces. "The U.S. Has excessive expectations. To stabilise supply-
demand relations which have been disrupted by excess inventories since
1985 will take some time," he said. Kuroda also laid part of the blame
for low U.S. Chip sales in Japan on a lack of effort by American firms
here. He said if he fails in talks tomorrow and Friday to forestall
sanctions, he will seek further talks with U.S. Trade Representative
Clayton Yeutter. U.S. Officials said this week's talks are unlikely to
delay imposition of tariffs. REUTER 

PHILIPPINE TRADE GAP WIDENS IN JANUARY-AUGUST
    MANILA, Oct 19 - 
The Philippines' trade deficit widened to 542 mln dlrs in the eight
months to end-August from 159 mln dlrs in the same 1986 period, the
National Statistics Office said. It said exports in the eight-month
period rose to 3.58 billion dlrs from 3.18 billion in 1986, while
imports rose to 4.12 billion dlrs from 3.34 billion a year earlier.
The country's trade deficit totalled 202 mln dlrs in 1986. REUTER 

JAPAN FARM REFORM A KEY TO TRIMMING TRADE SURPLUS
    TOKYO, April 17 - 
Basic reform of Japan's protected farm sector is a key to shifting its
economy away from export to domestic-led growth, a vital step if it is
to trim its trade surplus, securities analysts said. The farm sector,
which is protected by import tariffs and quotas, propped up by
subsidies and price supports, and sheltered by the tax system, has
ample room for change, they said. "In economic terms, reform would be
a plus," said Christopher Chew of brokerage firm James Capel and Co.
The ultimate cost of the existing system is food prices twice those in
Europe and two to three times those in the U.S., The analysts said.
Spending on food accounts for about one quarter of the average
household's budget and roughly 10 pct of the gross national product
(GNP), according to a study by Chew. Reducing these prices could
increase household spending power by five pct, his study said. The
money could be spent on products which would have a more direct impact
in boosting domestic growth, it added. "There's a lot of slack," a
U.S. Government official in Tokyo said. "All that money could be spent
on something else." Direct central government subsidies to the farm
sector amount to some five billion dlrs per year. Independent
estimates put total subsidies from all sources as high as 37 billion
and the analysts said much of that money is wasted. Changing tax laws
to encourage city residents who only farm on weekends to put their
land up for sale for residential development would also give a boost
to domestic spending, economists said. "Housing construction is the
key strategic variable in the expansion of domestic demand," wrote
Chihiro Nakajima, professor at Kyoto Gakuen University. Japanese
business groups are calling for staged farm reform to shift some of
the burden of trade friction and economic restructuring away from the
manufacturing sector and onto the farm sector. Employers groups also
want change. "If you really want to expand domestic demand, the way to
do it is not to raise wages recklessly, but to reduce commodity
prices," Bumpei Otsuki, President of the Japan Federation of
Employers' Associations told a recent press conference. External
pressures are rising as the U.S. And Europe seek removal of tariffs
and quotas to help reduce their trade deficits with Japan. But vested
Japanese interests opposed to change remain well entrenched, dimming
prospects for quick reform, analysts said. Although the full-time farm
population is falling and there are signs the LDP is paying more
attention to urban constituencies, the ruling party remains heavily
dependent on farm votes in the rural areas. One rural vote is worth
several city votes due to the pattern of constituency borders. The LDP
is already in political trouble over its tax reform plan and does not
want to raise another sticky issue so soon, the analysts said.
Consumer groups are politically weak and tend to accept the
traditional view that higher prices are a small fee to pay for
national food security, they said. Powerful agricultural cooperatives
are fiercely opposed to import liberalisation, but are more flexible
about reforms aimed at stepping up productivity, they said. Reform,
when it comes, will be in response to specific pressure rather than an
all-embracing program, said Chew. REUTER 

CANADA FEBRUARY TRADE SURPLUS 1.2 BILLION DLRS
    OTTAWA, April 9 - 
Canada had a trade surplus of 1.25 billion dlrs in February compared
with an upward revised 623 mln dlrs surplus in January, Statistics
Canada said. The January surplus originally was reported at 533 mln
dlrs. The February surplus last year was 189 mln dlrs. February
exports, seasonally adjusted, were 10.44 billion dlrs against 9.85
billion in January and 10.05 billion in February, 1986. February
imports were 9.19 billion dlrs against 9.23 billion in January and
9.86 billion in February, 1986. Reuter 

JAPAN'S JUNE INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS NARROWS
    TOKYO, June 19 - 
Japan's custom-cleared trade surplus narrowed to 1.61 billion dlrs in
the first 10 days of June from 1.97 billion a year earlier, the
Finance Ministry said. The June interim surplus compares with a 1.76
billion dlr surplus in the same May period. FOB exports in the first
10 days of June rose 17.6 pct from a year earlier to 6.05 billion dlrs
while CIF imports rose 39.6 pct to 4.44 billion. The average
yen/dollar rate used for the figures was 141.04 yen against 169.03 a
year earlier. REUTER 

U.S. MAY END ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS AGAINST JAPAN
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
The United States may lift an additional 84 mln dlrs in trade
sanctions against Japan later this month, Reagan Administration
officials said. President Reagan imposed 300 mln dlrs in sanctions on
Japanese goods last April for its failure to honor a 1986 agreement to
end dumping semiconductors in the U.S. and third country markets and
to open its home market to U.S. goods. The move raised tariffs to 100
pct from about five pct on Japanese color television sets, hand-held
power tools and portable computers. Reagan lifted 51 mln dlrs of the
sanctions last June after Japan ended selling the semiconductors on
the U.S. market at below production costs. Semiconductors are the
small silicon chips used for memory and recall purposes in a wide
variety of computers. The Administration officials said Commerce
Department monitors showed that Japan was ending its dumping of the
semiconductors in third countries, where they had been taking sales
away from American-made semiconductors. They said it was likely the 51
mln dlrs in sanctions would be lifted by the end of the month. The
United States and Japan remain at odds over opening the closed
Japanese markets to U.S. goods. U.S. and Japanese officials reviewed
Japan's compliance with the agreement earlier this week. The periodic
reviews are to continue and the remaining sanctions to stay in force,
the officials said, until Japan is in full compliance with the
semiconductor agreement. reuter 

SHULTZ WARNS ASEAN OF LOOMING TRADE PROBLEM
    SINGAPORE, June 19 - 
U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz warned members of the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) they could no longer
rely on increased exports to the U.S. For growth. "Given the
importance of exports, particularly export manufactures, to all of
your countries, you are going to have to work hard to diversify your
markets," he said. "While you may be able to maintain your current
market share in the U.S., You clearly will not be able to look to the
U.S. To take major increases in your exports," he added. Shultz told
the foreign ministers of Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines,
Singapore and Thailand the U.S. Would cut its huge foreign trade
deficit more rapidly than many now believed. He said ASEAN's looming
trade problems would not necessarily stem from protectionist
legislation now being contemplated by Congress, "but simply because of
the adjustments the U.S. Economy will have to make in order to service
our large and growing external debt." Shultz said the U.S. Deficit had
resulted not from falling exports but from higher imports that had
fuelled world growth. REUTER 

ASIAN EXPORTERS FEAR DAMAGE FROM U.S.-JAPAN RIFT
    HONG KONG, April 8 - 
Mounting trade friction between the U.S. And Japan has raised fears
among many of Asia's exporting nations that the row could inflict far-
reaching economic damage, businessmen and officials said. They told
Reuter correspondents in Asian capitals a U.S. Move against Japan
might boost protectionist sentiment in the U.S. And lead to curbs on
American imports of their products. But some exporters said that while
the conflict would hurt them in the long-run, in the short-term
Tokyo's loss might be their gain. The U.S. Has said it will impose 300
mln dlrs of tariffs on imports of Japanese electronics goods on April
17, in retaliation for Japan's alleged failure to stick to a pact not
to sell semiconductors on world markets at below cost. Unofficial
Japanese estimates put the impact of the tariffs at 10 billion dlrs
and spokesmen for major electronics firms said they would virtually
halt exports of products hit by the new taxes. "We wouldn't be able to
do business," said a spokesman for leading Japanese electronics firm
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd <MC.T>. "If the tariffs remain
in place for any length of time beyond a few months it will mean the
complete erosion of exports (of goods subject to tariffs) to the
U.S.," said Tom Murtha, a stock analyst at the Tokyo office of broker
<James Capel and Co>. In Taiwan, businessmen and officials are also
worried. "We are aware of the seriousness of the U.S. Threat against
Japan because it serves as a warning to us," said a senior Taiwanese
trade official who asked not to be named. Taiwan had a trade trade
surplus of 15.6 billion dlrs last year, 95 pct of it with the U.S. The
surplus helped swell Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves to 53 billion
dlrs, among the world's largest. "We must quickly open our markets,
remove trade barriers and cut import tariffs to allow imports of U.S.
Products, if we want to defuse problems from possible U.S.
Retaliation," said Paul Sheen, chairman of textile exporters <Taiwan
Safe Group>. A senior official of South Korea's trade promotion
association said the trade dispute between the U.S. And Japan might
also lead to pressure on South Korea, whose chief exports are similar
to those of Japan. Last year South Korea had a trade surplus of 7.1
billion dlrs with the U.S., Up from 4.9 billion dlrs in 1985. In
Malaysia, trade officers and businessmen said tough curbs against
Japan might allow hard-hit producers of semiconductors in third
countries to expand their sales to the U.S. In Hong Kong, where
newspapers have alleged Japan has been selling below-cost
semiconductors, some electronics manufacturers share that view. But
other businessmen said such a short-term commercial advantage would be
outweighed by further U.S. Pressure to block imports. "That is a very
short-term view," said Lawrence Mills, director-general of the
Federation of Hong Kong Industry. "If the whole purpose is to prevent
imports, one day it will be extended to other sources. Much more
serious for Hong Kong is the disadvantage of action restraining
trade," he said. The U.S. Last year was Hong Kong's biggest export
market, accounting for over 30 pct of domestically produced exports.
The Australian government is awaiting the outcome of trade talks
between the U.S. And Japan with interest and concern, Industry
Minister John Button said in Canberra last Friday. "This kind of
deterioration in trade relations between two countries which are major
trading partners of ours is a very serious matter," Button said. He
said Australia's concerns centred on coal and beef, Australia's two
largest exports to Japan and also significant U.S. Exports to that
country. Meanwhile U.S.-Japanese diplomatic manoeuvres to solve the
trade stand-off continue. Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party
yesterday outlined a package of economic measures to boost the
Japanese economy. The measures proposed include a large supplementary
budget and record public works spending in the first half of the
financial year. They also call for stepped-up spending as an emergency
measure to stimulate the economy despite Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone's avowed fiscal reform program. Deputy U.S. Trade
Representative Michael Smith and Makoto Kuroda, Japan's deputy
minister of International Trade and Industry (MITI), are due to meet
in Washington this week in an effort to end the dispute. REUTER 

REAGAN TO ANNOUNCE DECISION ON JAPAN SANCTIONS
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
President Reagan today is to announce a decision on tough new tariffs
on Japanese exports to retaliate for what he calls Japan's failure to
end its unfair practices in semiconductor trade. The 100 pct tariffs
are to be imposed on 300 mln dlrs of Japanese goods recommended for
curbs by a special panel of experts headed by the U.S. Trade
Representative's Office. Reagan announced last March 27 he would
impose the tariffs on certain goods taken from a list that ranged from
computors and television sets to power tools and photographic film.
The panel this week winnowed through the list of the some 20 products
and sent their recommendations yesterday to Santa Barbara, where
Reagan is vacationing. In his March annoucement, Reagan said "I am
committed to full enforcement of our trade agreements designed to
provide American industry with free and fair trade opportunities." He
added the tariffs would be lifted once Japan honored the pact it
signed last year to end dumping semiconductors in world markets and
opened its home market to U.S. products. U.S. officials said Japan had
done nothing since the March announcement to alter Reagan's plan to
invoke the sanctions. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said
yesterday: "we do not want a trade war, but we feel that this is the
kind of action that requires meaningful action." Reagan's move follows
steadily rising U.S. trade deicits, with last year's hitting a record
$169.8 billion. About one-third of the deficit is in trade with Japan.
Congress is weighing a trade bill to force the president to retaliate
in certain cases of unfair trade practices. He has opposed the
legislation, saying it would prevent negotiated solutions to trade
disputes and, in any case, that existing law was adqeuate to end
unfair trade practices. Trade experts say his tough action against the
Japanese was as much to penalize the Japanese as to show Congress he
did not need any new trade legislation. The Japanese have complained
that they have been honoring the semiconductor pact, but that it would
take time before the results showed up. U.S. officials, however, have
said their monitoring of Japanese semiconductor shipments to East
Asian countries and Western Europe showed no letup in the dumping and
that the Japanese home markets remained shut to American exports.
Japan has said that if Reagan imposed the tariffs, it would file a
complaint with the General Agreement on Tariff and Trade (GATT). It
said hoped GATT would find the U.S. retaliation had violated the
regulations of the global trading group and would approve compensation
or Japanese retaliation. U.S. officials have said they did not think
Japan would retaliate because it had too much to lose in any trade war
with the United States. Reuter 

TURKISH TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN APRIL
    ANKARA, June 2 - 
Turkey's trade deficit widened to 382 mln dlrs in April from 275 mln
in March and 273 mln in April 1986, the State Statistics Institute
said. The deficit for the first quarter of 1987 widened to 1.23
billion dlrs from 1.20 billion a year earlier. April exports totalled
702 mln dlrs compared with imports of 1.08 billion. Exports in the
first four months were worth 2.69 billion dlrs compared with imports
of 3.92 billion. REUTER 

JAPAN DETAILS PLAN TO STAVE OFF TRADE PROBLEMS
     TOKYO, April 17 - 
Japan's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) has drawn up a detailed plan
calling for large tax cuts and an increase in government purchases of
foreign goods, the head of the committee working out the plan,
Junichiro Koizumi, said. The plan will also urge the government to
double 1985's official development assistance to 7.6 billion dlrs
within five years instead of seven as the government had promised,
senior LDP officials said at a press conference. LDP executive council
chairman Shintaro Abe will explain the plan to U.S. Officials when he
visits the U.S. On April 19. Abe's visit is to prepare for Prime
Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's talks with President Ronald Reagan later
this month. Koizumi said the LDP plan will not specify the size of the
tax cut or the amount of domestic demand to be stimulated. However,
top LDP executives will work out figures so that Abe will be able to
offer specifics to U.S. Officials. The proposed increase in
procurement of foreign goods by the government will probably include
the purchase of super computers, LDP officials said. specific trade
problems with other nations and will encourage flows of funds to
developing countries, the officials said. The LDP expects the measures
to prop up the economy and lessen trade problems with the U.S., They
added. The basic ideas of the LDP's plan were presented to and
welcomed by monetary authorities of the major industrial nations in
Washington last week, they said. The LDP plan will form the basis for
the last of several packages to stimulate Japanese domestic demand and
will be unveiled by the government in late May. REUTER 

EC LAUNCHES ANTI-DUMPING PROBE ON JAPANESE CHIPS
     BRUSSELS, April 9 - 
The European Community launched an investigation into allegations of
dumping by Japanese semiconductor makers in a move which diplomats
said could mark an intensification of world trade strains. Tokyo
already faces a deadline of April 17 from Washington for the
imposition of 300 mln dlrs worth of tariffs on chips it imports into
the U.S. The EC Executive Commission said today the European
Electrical Component Manufacturers Association complained that
Japanese firms were selling high capacity EPROM type (erasable
programmable read only memory) chips at unfairly low prices. Japan
last year took 78 pct of the 170 mln dlr EC EPROM market, up from 60
pct in 1984. The EC firms said they had been forced to offer their
products at a discount of up to 30 pct in order to compete with the
Japanese. The Commission said it believed the Association had given
sufficient elements of proof for dumping to warrant an investigation,
which could lead it to impose duties if it found the complaints were
justified. The Commission claims last year's accord between the U.S.
And Japan on microchip pricing gives U.S. Firms privileged access to
the Japanese market. REUTER 

EC COULD DECIDE ON JAPAN TRADE MOVES IN LATE MAY
    BRUSSELS, April 13 - 
The European Community (EC) has effectively given Japan six weeks to
take moves to open its market to imports before it decides on possible
tough retaliatory trade measures, EC diplomats said. They said EC
foreign ministers will meet on May 25 and 26 to review the state of
trade relations between the two sides. The EC executive commission was
asked by representatives of member states on Friday to propose a
renunciation of some EC pledges to the world trade body, GATT, unless
there are "adequate and early measures to open the Japanese market."
Such a renunciation would be the first step to imposing stiff
increases in duties, or quantitative limits, on Japanese exports. The
diplomats said it was unlikely that the issue would be discussed in
detail at the next meeting of EC foreign ministers on April 27 and 28
in Luxembourg as time was needed to prepare proposals for possible
retaliatory action. They said the commission has powers to take some
limited action before getting ministerial approval to prevent Japanese
exports of electrical, photographic and other goods being diverted to
Europe following of possible U.S. Tariff moves. In May, the ministers
are also likely to discuss how to prevent Japan from getting an extra
trading advantage as a result of Spain and Portugal joining the bloc,
which obliges them gradually to reduce tariffs on many industrial
goods. Japan's trade surplus with the Community has grown steadily,
registering a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March. Reuter 

CANADA FEBRUARY TRADE SURPLUS 1.25 BILLION DLRS AFTER
JANUARY 623 MLN DLRS SURPLUS




SEOUL ANNOUNCES MORE TARIFF CUTS FOR U.S.
    SEOUL, June 1 - 
South Korea will cut import taxes on 50 items, including construction
equipment, photographic film, cigarettes and pipe tobacco, to help
reduce its trade surplus with the United States, the finance ministry
said. The tariff cuts, of between five and 30 percentage points, take
effect on July 1. This brings to 157 the number of goods on which
import taxes have been cut this year, a ministry official said. The
157 are among about 290 items on which Washington has asked Seoul to
lower tariffs, he added. Today's announcement follows Saturday's
removal of import curbs on 170 products. For 46 of those products, the
U.S. Had had sought free access to the South Korean market. "This is
in line with the government's policy to limit our trade surplus with
the United States to help reduce trade friction between the two
countries," the official said. South Korea's trade surplus with the
U.S. Rose to 7.3 billion dlrs in 1986 from 4.3 billion in 1985.
Officials said the surplus was expected to widen further in 1987 but
Seoul would try to hold it below eight billion dlrs. The finance
ministry said tariffs would be cut later this month on a further 53
items, including acrylic yarn and ethylene, by an average 7.7
percentage points in order to check inflation. The officials said the
tariff cuts would contribute to holding wholesale and consumer price
rises at less than three pct this year. REUTER 

EUROPEAN COMMUNITY CRITICISES U.S TRADE MEASURES
    GENEVA, June 18 - 
The European Community (EC) accused the United States of violating a
political commitment to free trade through practices including a tax
on imported gasoline and a customs user fee. EC ambassador Tran Van-
Thinh made the formal charge to the surveillance body of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), GATT spokesman David Woods told
reporters. Woods also said the EC was joined by the United States in
criticising Brazil for extending its list of products for which import
licenses have been temporarily suspended, so as to improve its balance
of payments. The United States charged Japan with violating GATT rules
by restricting imports of agricultural products through an import
licensing system. The United States asked for consultations with Tokyo
on the issue. Tran charged that the trade measures contravened a
political commitment to halt and reverse trade barriers, pledged by
ministers in Punta del Este last September. When ministers established
the four year Uruguay round to negotiate freer trade in 13 areas, they
set up the GATT surveillance body to monitor this commitment, known in
GATT jargon as "standstill and rollback." Tran criticised Washington
for the "superfund" tax on oil imports, a customs user fee, and the
removal of a special machine tool (known as category FSC34) from its
government procurement list for reasons of national security. Warren
Lavorel, a U.S. Trade official, defended the policies, saying they did
not violate GATT trade rules. The surveillance body will send a record
of today's talks to the Trade Negotiating Committee, which oversees
the round, to decide any further action on the charges. The oil tax
and customs user fee have already been the subject of formal GATT
dispute panels set up outside the Uruguay Round to rule on the
legality of the practices. The ruling GATT Council yesterday adopted a
dispute panel's report and ruled that the U.S. Superfund tax on oil
imports breached trade rules. It called on Washington to modify its
legislation. Mexico and Canada, along with the European Community,
brought the dispute to the GATT last year. Reuter 

TRADE ISSUES STRAINING EC'S PATIENCE WITH JAPAN
    BRUSSELS, April 13 - 
Member states of the European Community are starting to run out of
patience with Japan which they believe has repeatedly promised major
initiatives to open its market to imports, but as often made only
minor moves. Diplomatic sources here said several recent actions by EC
countries bear witness to a new disillusionment with the willingness,
or at least the ability, of the Japanese government to reduce its
massive trade surplus with the EC. However, they said an all-out trade
war may be far off, as EC states know they would suffer almost as much
as Japan. Senior EC diplomats gave a generally favourable reaction to
an EC executive commission proposal under which the EC could raise
tariffs on a range of Japanese products if the U.S. Carries out a
threat to make a similar move on April 17. The EC tariffs, which would
involve renouncing obligations entered into with the world trade body
GATT, would be designed to stop a diversion of exports to the EC
market from that of the U.S. The diplomats were meeting as Tokyo
announced that the EC's trade deficit with Japan reached a record 2.13
billion dlrs in March, up from 1.94 billion in February. Reuter 

LATIN, CARIBBEAN NATIONS OPPOSE TRADE BILLS
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
A group of Latin American and Caribbean nations formally opposed trade
legislation pending in Congress, saying it would curb their exports,
slow development and hinder its ability to repay foreign debt. Mario
Rodriguez Montero, president of an Organization of American States
special committee on trade, said he was aware of the large U.S. trade
deficit, but added "the region should not be the one affected by the
trade bills." He said the causes of the deficit were the strong dollar
and the budget deficit, and "it is regrettable to solve it by a trade
bill that would only serve private U.S. interests." Rodriguez made the
comment at a news conference after two days of meetings with U.S.
officials on trade bills now in Congress that are designed to reduce
the U.S. trade deficit, which last year hit a record 166.3 billion
dlrs. Congressional observers say the bills are aimed mainly at Japan,
Taiwan, South Korea and a few other nations with large, annual trade
surpluses with the United States. Mexico, Brazil and Venezuela are the
only Latin nations with large trade surpluses last year with the
United States, but even Mexico, with the largest, had a surplus of
only 5.2 billion dlrs, against Japan's of 58.6 billion dlrs. The
European Community has also opposed the bills. Rodriguez said the
Latin and Caribbean nations backed the Reagan Administration's
opposition to many of the sections in the legislation, including those
to curb imports and to require retaliation for foreign unfair trade
practices. He told reporters the committee would likely mount a
campaign to fight the legislation when it comes up for debate on the
Senate floor, expected next week. Rodriguez said "the region needs
trade to continue development. We hope this need will not be affected
negatively by trade legislation." Rodriguez said: "we need to keep the
market opens - especially the U.S. market - to obtain the necessary
foreign exchange not only to service the debt but also to continue
national development progress." President Reagan has said he would
veto any legislation he termed "protectionist," and his aides now are
mounting a effort to water down some of the objectionable provisions
in the legislation. Asked whether Reagan was ready to cast a veto,
Rodriguez said as yet "the administration is not in a veto frame of
mind." reuter 

CANADA SEEKS FIVE YEAR FARM REFORM PLAN
    OTTAWA, Oct 20 - 
Canada will propose at the new round of international trade talks that
most trade-distorting farm subsidies be phased out over a five year
period, Trade Minister Pat Carney said. "Agricultural subsidies and
trade barriers have created a vicious circle which continues to cause
problems of overproduction and low commodity prices," Carney told the
House of Commons. Carney was outlining the government's new position
on the farm trade problem that was tabled on Tuesday in Geneva in the
multilateral talks under the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade). While few details were released, Carney said the government
would also be pressing for an improvement in market access and new
measures to ensure countries do not erect artificial barriers. "Under
the Canadian proposal, all countries would have to ensure that
domestic policies and programs to address the specific needs of their
farm sectors do not distort trade," a government background paper
said. "Furthermore, in assessing the trade impact of programs, credit
could be given to countries which effectively control the output of
farm products," the papers said. Reuter 

REAGAN SAYS TRADE BILL FACES VETO IN PRESENT FORM
    WASHINGTON, June 19 - 
President Reagan said he would veto a House-passed trade bill
requiring mandatory retaliation for "unfair trade" if it reached its
desk in its present form. In a statement at a White House meeting with
Senate Republicans on the legislation, he said: "I would have no
choice but to veto that bill in its present form." He said the measure
"would move us exactly in the wrong direction" towards high tariffs,
trade barriers, trade distorting subsidies, slow growth and crimped
world markets, and would destroy jobs. Reuter 

JAPAN GIVEN LITTLE HOPE OF AVOIDING U.S. SANCTIONS
    TOKYO, April 8 - 
A top U.S. Official said Japan has little chance of persuading the
U.S. to drop threatened trade sanctions, despite the efforts of a
Japanese team that left for Washington today. Michael Armacost, Under
Secretary of State for Political Affairs, was asked at a press
conference whether Japan's moves to boost its domestic economy and
open its markets could persuade the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on
Japanese imports said, and replied: "...It is probably too early for
the figures to demonstrate that the situation has turned around and to
permit the result you have described." Armacost said the U.S. Hopes
Japan will take steps to lift its domestic economy and reduce
dependence on exports, remove barriers to imports and settle
outstanding trade issues. "There are obvious problems at the moment in
the trade area, but we do not wish those problems to divert attention
from important areas of cooperation that continue to exist on security
and political issues," he said. "The question is whether through
cooperative actions between our governments we can reduce the (trade)
imbalance or whether Congress takes action to reduce it through
protectionist legislation," he said. REUTER 

YEUTTER SAYS JAPANESE CURB ALL BUT CERTAIN
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said it was all but certain
President Reagan would go ahead today and impose curbs on Japanese
exports as planned. Asked in a television interview what the chance
was for Reagan to cancel the scheduled 100 pct tariffs on Japanese
electronic exports, he said "slim to none." Reagan announced on March
27 he would impose the tariffs to retaliate for Japan's failure to
honor a 1986 agreement to end dumping computer semiconductors in world
markets at less than cost and to open its home markets to U.S.
products. Yeutter, on the NBC program "Today," said the United States
did not want to terminate the agreement and would drop the tariffs
once Japan began fulfilling the agreement. He said Japanese
negotiators last week told U.S. officials they were honoring the pact,
but Yeutter said it would take time to monitor any compliance. Asked
how long that would take, he said "We want to see a pattern of
compliance, so in a minimum I would say that would take a few weeks."
Yeutter said he did not think there would be much consumer impact by
the tariffs on 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese goods because the items
selected are also readily available from other countries and
manufacturers. He said he did not think Japan would retaliate. "It
seems to me it is not in the interests of either country to get in an
escalating conflict. The Japanese understand that full well," Yeutter
said. He added Japan might challenge the tariffs in the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), but "that's more of a paper
kind of exercise and I don't really expect to see any adverse impact
on U.S. trade." Yeutter also said he did not see any way the
semiconductor issue could be resolved before or during a Washington
visit later this month by Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone.
He said he hoped the visit, which is to have trade as a major issue,
would be productive but "I don't see any practical way to resolve this
particular dispute before or during his visit." reuter 

JAPANESE TARIFFS SEEN AS WORLDWIDE WARNING
    WASHINGTON, April 17 - 
The tough trade sanctions President Reagan imposed on Japanese exports
are not only a shot across Japan's bow but also a sign Reagan will
attack unfair trade practices worldwide, U.S. officials said. But
Robert Crandall, a trade specialist at Brookings Institution, a think
tank, said "a shot across their bow can often result in a shot in our
stern." He said it left the United States open to retaliation. The
U.S. officials said the 100 pct tariffs Reagan ordered on 300 mln dlrs
worth of Japanese goods will also show Congress that a tough pro-trade
stand can be taken under existing laws, and no new protectionist
legislation is needed. In the past year tough trade action had been
taken against the European Community over corn and sorghum, Taiwan
over beer and wine, South Korea over counterfeiting of copyrights,
patents and trademarkets and Japan on tobacco. White House spokesman
Marlin Fitzwater told reporters the tariffs - up from five pct -
should be seen as a "serious signal" to other nations on the need for
fair trade practices. Reagan said he imposed the sanctions on certain
computers, television sets and some hand tools because Japan did not
honor an agreement to end dumping semiconductors in world markets at
less than cost and to open its markets to U.S. products. The tariffs
were placed on items which were available from other sources so there
would be little effect on the American consumer, Fitzwater said.
Reagan has come under heavy pressure to take tougher action -
especially against Japan - to end global unfair trade practices and
reverse the growing U.S. trade deficit. The alternative was that if he
did not, Congress would. The U.S. trade gap last year was a record
169.8 billion dlrs, and continues to rise, with Japan accounting for
about one-third of America's overall deficit. But there are other two-
way deficits - with Canada, West Germany, Taiwan and South Korea - and
Reagan officials said the president is ready to fight them all. Reagan
said in announcing the sanctions today that "I regret that these
actions are necessary," but that the health and vitality of the U.S.
semiconductor industry was essential to American competitiveness in
world markets. "We cannot allow it to be jeopardized by unfair trading
practices," Reagan added in the statement from his California vacation
home at Santa Barbara. He said the tariffs would remain in force until
Japan abided by the agreement. U.S. officials say the action today
will show Congress - which is about to write a trade bill he does not
like - that he already has the tools needed to fight unfair trade. The
White House aide said of the tariff action, "it wasn't done to appease
Congress, but because there was an unfair trade practice." The aide
added, however, "on another plane, it was an example of how the
administration uses the trade law to fight unfair practices, an that
it is not necessary to make a major overall of our trade laws." But
the analyst, Crandall, said the tariff action was not in the best
interests of the United States, and that negotiations should have been
pursued to resolve the issue. "It's very dangerous to go down the
retaliatory route," he said, "because it leads to more retaliation and
restrictions in trade." Crandall said, "the administration is doing
this for its political impact across the country, and therefore its
impact on Congress." He said, "I don't think it makes a lot of sense."
But other analysts said it made little difference whether the tariffs
were aimed at U.S. trading partners or Congress, and that the main
point was that the trading partners were on notice that retaliation
was a weapon Reagan was ready to use. Spokesman Fitzwater said "we
don't want a trade war," but the imposition of sanctions showed the
United States would act when it had evidence that trade pacts were
being violated. Crandall said, "the administration is doing this for
its political impact across the country, and therefore its impact on
Congress." He said, "I don't think it makes a lot of sense." But other
analysts said it made little difference whether the tariffs were aimed
at U.S. trading partners or Congress, and that the main point was that
the trading partners were on notice that retaliation was a weapon
Reagan was ready to use. Spokesman Fitzwater said "we don't want a
trade war," but the imposition of sanctions showed the United States
would act when it had evidence that trade pacts were being violated.
Reuter 

EC, U.S. PLAN HIGH-LEVEL TRADE TALKS
    LUXEMBOURG, Oct 19 - 
The European Community is willing to offer limited concessions to the
United States on one of two major issues which threaten to poison
their trade relations next year, an EC commission spokesman said. He
said the offer would be made at a meeting later this month between
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter and EC External Relations
Commissioner Willy de Clercq. EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen
told agriculture ministers meeting in Luxembourg that the EC is
willing to make some temporary arrangements to lighten the impact on
U.S. Exports of an EC plan to ban the sales of meat from animals fed
with growth hormones, the spokesman said. Washington has said it will
take trade reprisals if the EC proceeds with the ban from January 1
and if European countries do not quickly cut back what it sees as
unfair subsidies to the makers of their Airbus airliner which are
harming U.S. Manufacturers. It claims the hormones ban has no
scientific basis and will rob it of 130 mln dlrs' worth of exports a
year. Diplomatic sources said the Yeutter-de Clercq meeting will take
place in London and will also involve the aerospace ministers of
France, Britain, West Germany and Spain, the countries involved in the
Airbus project. Reuter 

