ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - CHINA MUST PRESERVE FARMLAND
    FENGBANG COUNTY, China, April 1 - 
"If we go on using up farmland as we have done since 1980, there will
be none left in 20 years to grow grain on." Xu Jinfeng, a middle-aged
official in Fengbang village on the edge of Shanghai, sums up the
dilemma China faces as it tries to feed its more than one billion
people and at the same time let them get richer by building factories
and new homes. China has to feed one quarter of the world's
population, but only one seventh of its land is arable. Sharp
increases in farm output since 1979 turned China into a net grain
exporter for the first time in 1985, and again in 1986. But the rapid
industrialisation of the countryside which has occurred at the same
time, has gobbled up arable land for factories and homes for peasants
who can now afford them. Official figures show that China lost just
under one pct of its arable land to other uses in 1985 and a slightly
smaller amount last year. It gained 26 mln new mouths to feed during
the two years. "We lost very little land prior to 1980 when the
industrialisation began," official Xu said. "Since then, nearly all
the families in the county have built new homes and many factories
have gone up." "Last year we lost land to a new railway line," Xu
said. But land losses in future should fall because nearly all
families already have new houses, she added. The issue of land loss is
a matter of major concern to the Peking leadership, which announced
earlier this month that China will issue nationwide quotas for
conversion of grain land for the first time this year. "The present
situation of abusing, occupying unlawfully, wasting and destroying
land and land resources is serious," said an article in the official
press explaining the new measures. "It has resulted in great losses of
cultivated farmland," it said. "China has a large population and its
land resources are badly deficient." An official of the Shanghai city
government said county authorities could approve conversion of only
0.3 hectares of arable land to other uses, while anything more than
that must be approved by the city government. The Peking government
faces another major obstacle in its efforts to ensure China's people
get enough grain to eat. The prices the state pays to farmers for
grain are too low, making it more profitable for them to grow other
crops. To offset this, the state offers farmers cheap fertiliser and
diesel oil and payment in advance for grain it contracts to buy. The
state then sells the grain at subsidised prices to China's 200 mln
city residents. Rural factories also subsidise grain output, paying
farmers bonuses to grow it. Some officials argue that the simplest
solution to the problem would be for the state to raise city grain
prices. Chen Zuyuan, Communist Party secretary of a village in the
eastern province of Zhejiang, said the government listened too much to
the demands of "selfish city people" and could raise city grain prices
without any problem. But the government has ruled out a price rise.
"Raising the price of grain would directly conflict with the goal of
social stability," said a China Daily editorial this month. The
Shanghai official said prices must be reformed over the long term. "We
must be very careful. We have a very large population which is used to
price stability and will object to price rises," he said. "The problem
is how to do it." The Shanghai official said a rise in grain prices
might also affect the prices of hundreds of food products made with
grain and consumed by city residents. In addition, the state faces the
problem of inadequate investment by farmers in land and in grain in
particular. The official press has reported that farmers fear farm
policy may change and they are putting their new wealth into building
graves, memorial halls for ancestors and homes. Under reforms
introduced in the late 1970s, farmers sign contracts with the state
requiring them to grow certain crops, but they have considerable
freedom in how to use their land. "As the expiration date of the
15-year contract is almost at the halfway mark, farmers are beginning
to worry about the future," the China Daily said in an editorial last
month. Their anxieties stem from the fact that they are allowed to use
the land but not own it. For most of the period of Communist rule, the
land was organised into collectives where there was little room for
individual initiative. "New measures are needed to reassure them of
the consistency of government policies and make them interested in
long-term investment," the newspaper said.

U.S. GRAIN CARLOADINGS FALL IN WEEK
    WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - 
U.S. grain carloadings totaled 26,108 cars in the week ended February
21, down 2.2 pct from the previous week but 22.8 pct above the
corresponding week a year ago, the Association of American Railroads
reported. Grain mill product loadings in the week totalled 11,382
cars, down 1.8 pct from the previous week but 7.6 pct above the same
week a year earlier, the association said.

IOWA GRAIN ELEVATOR EXPLODES, BURNS
    BANCROFT, Iowa, April 7 - 
An explosion and fire today damaged a grain elevator in Bancroft,
Iowa, destroying thousands of bushels of grain, authorities said. The
pre-dawn explosion ripped the wooden elevator open, and a fire that
followed continued burning at late morning but had been contained,
according to a dispatcher at the Algona Police Department. No injuries
were reported at the Lone Rock Coop facility. The dispatcher said the
elevator was filled with corn, and a nearby drying building holding
soybeans was on fire. The explosion was the second in four days in
Iowa following the destruction of an Archer Daniels Midland elevator
in Burlington last Friday.

SOUTHEAST CHINA CROPS SAVED BY HEAVY RAIN
    PEKING, March 17 - 
The heaviest rains for seven months are believed to have saved more
than one mln hectares of drought-threatened crops in southeast China,
the official New China News Agency said. This week's rains have
alleviated drought conditions in Guangdong Province, the agency said.
China has warned that this year's harvest will be affected by drought
in many areas.

SOVIET GRAIN PRODUCTS MINISTRY CRITICISED
    MOSCOW, April 7 - 
The Soviet Communist Party has criticised the country's Grain Products
Ministry for failing to ensure proper grain storage, turning out poor
quality bread and for unsatisfactory book keeping, Pravda said. The
party daily said that losses in the industry owing to waste and theft
amounted to 7.3 mln roubles over the last two and a half years. The
situation was particularly bad in the Central Asian republic of
Kazakhstan, which has been severely criticised since the ousting of
its veteran leader Dinmukhamed Kunayev last December. Its new leader,
Gennady Kolbin, has said that at times the grain-growing republic has
performed so badly that it has been obliged to seek grain supplies
from national reserves. Tass news agency announced yesterday that
Grain Products Minister Grigory Zolotukhin, 75, was being retired and
replaced by Alexander Budyka, a senior food industry official. Pravda
added today that the crisis in the industry had been drawn to
Zolotukhin's attention and two of his deputies reprimanded.

TRADE PROPOSES NEW EC GRAIN INTERVENTION RULES
    BRUSSELS, March 23 - 
The European Community (EC) cereals trade lobby organisation Coceral
said it has written to EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen to
propose a new system for sales into intervention, which it claims
could save the EC budget money. It proposes that applications for
intervention be made through a certificate valid for execution three
months later. If during the three months the trader found a market
elsewhere, he could buy back the certificate on payment of a one pct
premium. Coceral argues that this would restore the original function
of intervention as a safety net and would end the present situation in
which produce is often sold into intervention as a precaution.

U.S. CONGRESS TO LOOK AT SOIL PROGRAM EXEMPTIONS
     WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
The Senate Agriculture Committee is expected to take up a bill
tomorrow that would exempt from government conservation regulations
those farmers who have rotated alfalfa and other multiyear grasses and
legumes with row crops, committee staff said. Under current so-called
"sodbuster" law, farmers who planted alfalfa and other multiyear
grasses and legumes on highly erodible land in the years 1981 through
1985 lose federal farm program benefits if they produce a row crop on
that land in later years. Sen. Edward Zorinsky (D-Neb.), sponsor of
the measure, said recently that those crop rotating practices resulted
in less erosion than the practices of many farmers who produced
strictly row crops.

ADM GRAIN ELEVATOR EXPLODES IN BURLINGTON, IOWA
    CHICAGO, April 3 - 
A grain elevator in Burlington, Iowa, exploded today, leaving five
injured. The elevator, operated by Archer Daniels Midland Co. of
Decatur, Ill., is a terminal elevator on the Mississippi River, Doug
Snyder, assistant to the vice president said. The cause of the
explosion and the extent of damage to the elevator was not immediatley
known.

CHINA TO IMPORT MORE GRAIN IN 1987
    HANGZHOU, China, March 17 - 
China's grain imports will rise in 1987 because of a serious drought
and increasing demand, but will be not be as large as in the past,
Chinese officials and Japanese traders told Reuters. They said foreign
exchange constraints and national policy would not allow a return to
large-scale imports, which peaked at 16.15 mln tonnes in 1982. An
agricultural official of the Shanghai government put maximum imports
at about 10 mln tonnes this year, against 7.73 mln in 1986 and 5.97
mln in 1985. Officials said grain imports rose in 1986 because of a
poor harvest and rising domestic demand, but remained below exports,
which rose to 9.42 mln tonnes from 9.33 mln in 1985. "China is short
of foreign exchange," the Shanghai official said. "We cannot rely on
imports, even at current low world prices. Only if there is a major
disaster will we become a major importer." A Japanese trader in Peking
said Chinese grain imports would rise and exports fall this year
because of the drought, low world prices and rising domestic demand
for human and animal consumption. "At current prices, China loses yuan
on every tonne of grain it exports, though it earns foreign exchange
which it badly needs," the trader said. The People's Daily said last
Saturday a serious drought is affecting 13.3 mln hectares of arable
land, which will reduce the summer grain harvest from last year's
level. The paper added that leaders in some areas were not paying
enough attention to agriculture, especially grain, making it difficult
to achieve the 1987 grain output target of 405 mln tonnes against 391
mln in 1986. "All areas must spare no effort to raise the autumn
harvest area, especially of corn, sweet potatoes, paddy rice and high-
yield cash crops," it said. It added factory production might have to
be reduced to provide electricity for agriculture if it was needed to
fight the drought. Since January, the press has devoted much attention
to grain, stressing that growth in output is vital to China's economic
and political stability and that prices paid to farmers are too low.
Officials in east China have repeatedly said stable grain production
is a key state policy and outlined the measures being taken in their
areas to encourage output. The Shanghai official said that in one
suburb, 10 pct of the pre-tax profits of factories are used to
subsidise agriculture. He said rural industries in other suburbs also
set aside money for grain and pay the salaries of some of the 70,000
workers available to help farmers. Chu Jinfeng, an official of
Fengbing county outside Shanghai, said factory workers get 60 yuan a
month and three years unpaid leave to grow grain and can keep the
profits. Pan Huashan, an official of the agricultural department of
Zhejiang Province, said rural industry also subsidises grain output in
his province. "In addition, we are setting up grain production bases,
raising the level of science and technology on the farms and improving
the supply of raw materials, roads and other infrastructure," he said.
The Shanghai official said rural residents who work in industry or
commerce usually keep their land to farm in their spare time, or let
other family members farm it. In some cases, they lease the land to
grain farmers. The China Daily said last month that grain output
should reach between 425 and 450 mln tonnes by 1990 and between 480
and 500 mln by 2000. It said growing grain should be made profitable.
"The advantages the state promises grain growers actually yield
tangible profits for them and are not siphoned off by intermediate
agencies because of bureaucracy or corruption. Only this will boost
enthusiasm," it said.

REPORT ON EXPORT MARKETS FOR U.S. GRAIN DELAYED
    WASHINGTON, March 30 - 
The U.S. Agriculture Department's report on Export Markets for U.S.
Grain, scheudled for release today, has been delayed until Wednesday,
April 1, a department spokeswoman said. No reason was given for the
delay in releasing the monthly report.

NO PROOF OF MORE CHERNOBYL GRAIN DAMAGE-DIPLOMATS
    MOSCOW, March 24 - 
Western agricultural attaches in Moscow said they had no evidence to
substantiate rumours that last April's Chernobyl nuclear disaster had
a worse effect on Soviet grain than first reported. Current Soviet
interest in chartering ships to carry grain from the U.S. Helped
prompt the rumours on world markets. But the diplomats said they had
seen no reports in the state press and heard no comments from
officials to substantiate them. The official media was initially slow
in reporting the accident but, under Kremlin leader Mikhail
Gorbachev's campaign for openness, gradually gave more and more
details. Land around the nuclear plant was contaminated to varying
degrees. Some is now being used to grow industrial crops instead of
grain.

USDA ESTIMATES 1986 SOVIET GRAIN CROP  AT 210 MLN TONNES VS 210 IN FEB, 192 YEAR-AGO




CBT DISCUSSES MAJOR CHANGES FOR RENOVATION
    CHICAGO, March 9 - 
Chicago Board of Trade (CBT) agricultural and financial futures
markets could be in for a period of major upheaval later this year if
the exchange goes ahead with planned renovation. A CBT spokesman told
Reuters the exchange was looking at a number of options to identify
the most cost effective and efficient way to proceed, including one
which would involve moving the entire grains floor out of the building
and into the nearby MidAmerica Commodity Exchange. "One of (CBT
Chairman) Karsten Mahlmann's agenda items has been to proceed with
renovation in the financial futures room," the spokesman said. Another
CBT official, executive vice president George Sladoje, said the issue
would be discussed this Friday at a special meeting on the exchange
floor. A number of presentations have been made with regard to
renovating the financial futures room, Sladoje said. "We've looked at
five or six different alternatives, involving such things as flip-
flopping the trading rooms," he added. It is conceivable that under a
couple of these plans, we might use the MidAmerica Exchange
temporarily for some CBT markets, Sladoje said. "If we move out of one
floor entirely, then the construction period will be about a year," he
said, adding that the issue was likely to go to a membership vote
first and then be on the drawing board for eight months to a year. The
CBT spokesman stressed that discussions were very preliminary at this
stage and nothing was likely to begin until this summer at the
earliest. In order to renovate the crowded financial futures pits,
exchange officials have discussed providing them a temporary home next
door in the present grains-dominated area. This could involve moving
CBT markets in U.S. Treasury Bond futures, Treasury Notes, Muni-bonds,
and options on T-Bonds and T-Notes through an adjoining corridor,
while utilizing the MidAmerica floor for such CBT futures contracts as
corn, wheat, soybeans, soybean products and agricultural options. Any
such moves could meet with opposition among some CBT members. One
senior floor trader said the financial futures room badly needs
renovating. "There is talk the grains floor will shift to the MidAm
and the financials will move to the grains area," he said. The CBT
spokesman said another option being discussed was to renovate the
financial floor in quadrants, one quarter at a time. "The first step,
after deciding the most effective way to proceed, would be to get
architectural and engineering drawings," he said. He added that it was
difficult at present to determine an exact time frame for any possible
moves. "This is a major undertaking and a process that would spread
out over next year," he said. Floor traders at the MidAmerica
Commodity Exchange, which merged with the CBT about a year ago, said
they were preparing to vacate their floor at the end of this month.
Space has recently been cleared for them at the CBT by moving its
Major Market Index pit into the area once reserved for lightly-traded
CBT gold and silver futures, which now share their trading area. The
MidAm specializes in mini-contracts in grains, livestock, metals,
financials and foreign currencies as well as some options contracts.
"Rumor has it that the CBT grains are coming over here because the
bonds are too crowded," one MidAm trader said. Another source at the
MidAm said this change could take place by July or August.

IZVESTIA SAYS SOVIET WINTER CROPS NEED RESEEDING
    MOSCOW, March 4 - 
The government daily Izvestia said a considerable amount of Soviet
winter crops need to be reseeded and the state 1987 grain harvest
target of 232 mln tonnes will not be easy to fulfil. Without giving
figures, the newspaper said: "A considerable part of the winter crops
must be reseeded, but that creates extra effort in the fields in
spring." The Soviet Union has previously said nine mln hectares of
winter grain will have to be reseeded because of winterkill. A U.S.
Department of Agriculture analyst in Washington has said the figure of
nine mln hectares would equal about 25 pct of the total winter crop
and would be the second highest winterkill in 10 years. "The planned
task of bringing in no less than 232 mln tonnes of grain is not
simple," Izvestia said. This week's sudden fall in temperatures has
affected large parts of the country and has caused fieldwork to stop
in the Ukraine, it said, adding that temperatures fell to as low as
minus 30 centigrade in Byelorussia.

SOVIET GRAINS SEEN ENTERING SPRING ON SHAKY NOTE
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
Soviet winter grains could be off to a faulty start this spring after
enduring an usually dry fall and cold winter, weather and crop
analysts said. Prospects for another near-record grain harvest in the
Soviet Union appear dim at this point, but it is premature to forecast
any major crop problems, analysts said. But the situation bears
careful watching over the next six weeks and will ultimately impact
the Soviet grain supply and future buying plans, analysts of the
Soviet Union said. "From a weather standpoint, you can say with
certainty that the Soviets are not getting off to a good start and
will have a lower crop (than last year)," Gail Martell, chief
meteorologist for E.F. Hutton said. The next six weeks in the USSR's
grain growing areas will be the crucial period that will determine the
final outcome of the winter crops, Martell and other analysts said.
"Where the crop is really made or broken is still ahead of us," an
Agriculture Department authority on the USSR said. The Soviet Union
recently reported that nine mln hectares of winter grain will have to
be reseeded due to winterkill. This would be equal to about 25 pct of
the total winter crop and would be the second highest winterkill in
ten years, the USDA analyst said. With a timely spring, Soviet farmers
would probably be able to reseed the damaged acreage with spring
crops, but analysts noted that spring crops normally yield lower than
winter crops -- sometimes as much as 30-35 pct lower. Normally
winterkill is caused by inadequate snowcover combined with cold
temperatures. This winter, however, snowcover in Soviet grain areas
has generally been excellent, so the bulk of winterkill, analysts
speculate, likely has been due to a very dry fall and subsequent poor
crop germination. "Fall dryness may be a problem. There's a good
correlation between mediocre crops and fall dryness," Martell said.
Precipitation last fall was as little as 25 pct of normal in southern
and northern Ukraine, and below normal over the entire winter crop
area, she said. Recent cold temperatures in grain areas in which the
snowcover has been gradually melting could also have caused problems
of ice-crusting and winterkill, Jim Candor, senior forecaster for Accu
Weather, said. Livestock feed needs have probably increased because of
the fall and winter, analysts said. The dry fall damaged pastures, the
cold winter raised feed demands and a late spring would require longer
off-pasture feeding, they said. "The Soviets are not in a desperate
situation ... they don't have to buy (grains) now," a USDA official
said. But if the Soviets are worried about their winter crops and if
they feel that last year's huge crop of 210 mln tonnes was a one-time
fluke brought on by perfect conditions, more Soviet buying might occur
to insure crop supplies, he said. Bad weather during the next six
weeks could push the Soviets back into the market, weather analysts
said. "A lot of winterkill could occur during the next month and a
half," Martell said.

SOVIETS SAID TO SEE NEW FLOOR FOR GRAIN OUTPUT
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
The intensive technology concept for grain production has put a new
floor under USSR grain production, the U.S. Agriculture Department's
officer in Moscow said in a field report. The report, quoting a
broadcast on Radio Moscow, said that due to intensive technology grain
production in a "bad year" will not fall below 200 mln tonnes, and in
a "good year" grain production could reach 250 mln tonnes. The U.S.
Agriculture Department currently forecasts this year's USSR crop at
210.1 mln tonnes, and if realized this would be the third year since
1975 that the Soviet Union's grain harvest has exceeded 200.0 mln
tonnes. The largest crop since 1975 was 237.4 mln tonnes harvested in
1978, according to USDA data.

USDA GRAIN INSPECTION ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
    WASHINGTON, April 1 - 
The Federal Grain Inspection Service Advisory Committee will meet here
Monday, April 13, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. Items on the
agenda for the meeting, which is scheduled to begin at 0830 edt, are
grain-quality issues, status of proposed regulations, financial
matters and safety matters, the department said. The Federal Grain
Inspection Service Advisory Committee is composed of 12 members
representing the grain industry who provide advice to the
administrator of the Federal Grain Inspection Service.

JAPAN STUDY URGES FOREIGN ACCESS TO FARM MARKETS
    TOKYO, April 3 - 
Japan should increase foreign access to its farm products market,
while encouraging further development of domestic agriculture, a
government report said. The white paper on agriculture for the year
ended March 31 said active participation in writing world farm trade
rules at the next round of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) talks will help prepare Japan to improve access. Agriculture
Ministry sources said the paper marked an easing in Japan's tough
position on agricultural imports which stressed the need for strict
controls on some products to maintain self-sufficiency in food. Japan
now produces only 30 pct of its annual grain needs, down from 61 pct
some 20 years ago, official figures show. The paper said Japanese
agriculture has been slow to improve productivity and demand/supply
imbalances. The relative shortage of farmland in Japan is mainly
responsible for higher domestic prices, it said. The strong yen has
meant lower input material prices but has also resulted in higher
agricultural imports which has worsened working conditions among part-
time farmers, the paper said. This could make it difficult to improve
the industry's structure, the paper said. To solve these problems and
to reduce farm product prices to more reasonable levels, Japan should
try to restructure the the agricultural sector to improve productivity
and make it self-supporting, it said.

ILLINOIS CO-OP FUTURES DISSOLUTION VOTE SET
    CHICAGO, March 24 - 
The shareholders of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co., the futures
trading arm of many Midwest farm cooperatives for more than 25 years,
will vote Wednesday on its possible dissolution. The directors of the
company called a special meeting and recommended its dissolution last
month, citing falling volume and increasing costs. Sources close to
the organization told Reuters the pullout of Growmark, Inc., which
holds more than 70 pct of the capital stock, led to the call for
dissolution. The possible demise of the cooperative has set clearing
houses scrambling for the trading business of the 85 regional and
local cooperatives that comprise its membership. Ironically, it was
Growmark, at that time a regional farm cooperative with major river
terminal elevators, that founded Illinois Cooperative Futures on
December 1, 1960. But Growmark became affiliated last year with Archer
Daniels Midland of Decatur, Ill., and markets its grain through a
joint subsidiary of the two companies, ADM/Growmark. With that
relationship, Growmark no longer needs to trade futures through the
cooperative, said Tom Mulligan, president of the co-op. Membership in
the company, which Mulligan termed a cooperative of cooperatives, has
declined from 99 in 1982. A notable loss was AgriIndustries of Iowa,
which became affiliated with Cargill, Inc. Illinois Co-op's other
members include such regional cooperatives as Indiana Grain, based in
Indianapolis, Goldkist, of Atlanta, Ga., Midstates in Toledo, Ohio,
Farmland Industries in Kansas City, Mo., Farmers Commodities, Des
Moines, and Harvest States in Minneapolis. Some observors said the
demise of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co. is a serious blow to the
cooperative system. Instead of banding together, the individual
cooperatives are forced to go their own ways, said the floor manager
of one cash house at the Chicago Board of Trade. Such a move would
destroy the cohesiveness that gives farm cooperatives an advantage in
the market at a time that a few major commercial companies are growing
dominant, he said. Don Hanes, vice president for communications with
the National Council of Farm Cooperatives, said 5,600 cooperatives
exist today, down from 6,700 five years ago. "The period we've gone
through in the past five years has been quite a crunch," he said.
"There's been a lot of consolidation in the marketing co-ops." One
problem, he said, is the co-ops sell the grain to the major
commercials for export, rather than exporting it themselves, losing
potential profits. But exporting grain requires heavy investments, and
the multi-million-dollar loss posted six years ago by Farmers Export
Co., a co-op set up to export grains, served "to make folks gun-shy,"
Hanes said. Mulligan said he believes the dissolution, if it is
approved, is a result of change in the futures industry rather than a
change in U.S. agricultural economics. A grain dealer at one member
co-op said the futures arm "was a convenience, something that saved us
a little bit of money. (Its dissolution) will force us to change our
way of doing business." "We're sorry to see the co-op go by the
wayside," he said. "But there are lot of people out there to do
business with. There are plenty of capable firms." Steven W.
Cavanaugh, vice president for grain marketing with Indiana Grain, said
he would prefer to trade futures through a Chicago-based cooperative.
"In terms of clearing our business as a unit as opposed to
individuals, there would be economic savings," he said but added, "The
times change and with changing times, come different opinions of what
businesses ought to be around." Cavanaugh said the possible demise of
the futures arm had nothing to do with its profitability. "I would
guarantee you that this company is not in trouble. It is a sound,
healthy organization." In the year ended February 28, 1986, the
Illinois Cooperative reported income of 10.2 mln dlrs and members'
equity, or net worth, of 8.3 mln dlrs. The annual report for the most
recent year has not been filed. Under the cooperative system, income
from operations is returned as "patronage refunds" to the members.
Income and refunds in the past five years have been declining. In the
year ended February 28, 1982, the co-op reported income of 17.4 mln
dlrs and patronage refunds of 17.0 mln dlrs. Patronage refunds in the
year ended February 28, 1986, totalled 9.5 mln dlrs. "You're dealing
with substantially lower volume," Mulligan said. "Lower volume
translates into higher costs." According to the company's 1986 annual
report, Growmark owns 90 pct of the preferred shares and four pct of
the common shares of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co. Mulligan
declined to speculate on how much of the capital Growmark is entitled
to. He said he could not determine the figure unless the shareholders
decide in favor of dissolution. Equity is distributed according to
each member's trading volume and, as a result, changes from year to
year. However, Mulligan said the company could continue to meet
minimum capital requirements to trade futures even if Growmark pulled
out.

DUTCH GRAIN LEVY TEST CASE TO START IN APRIL
    ROTTERDAM, March 26 - 
A large Dutch animal feed compounder will begin formal legal
proceedings early next month as a test case on the way the EC grain
co-responsibility levy is applied, a spokesman for Dutch grain and
feed trade association, Het Comite, told Reuters. Het Comite has been
co-ordinating national actions against alleged distortions caused by
currency factors in the levy and, since December, has lodged more than
80 individual cases with the Business Appeal Court in The Hague. The
basic complaint is that the levy does not take account of currency
cross-rates of exchange and therefore compounders in countries with
strong currencies may have to pay more in their own currency than is
paid to them by producers in another country. Het Comite has obtained
a temporary agreement that companies can pay the amount they receive
toward the levy rather than paying a full guilder amount to the Dutch
grain commodity board. The spokesman said Het Comite will provide
financial and legal backing to the test case in the Business
Administration Court in the Hague. Oral proceedings are to begin on
April 10. The spokesman said Het Comite finally selected the company
for the test case from among the 80 lodged "because the bill (the
firm) received from the commodity board for payment of the levy
contained significant currency distortions and involved grain from a
wide variety of origins." The name of the company is not being made
public. The Administration Court is not expected to make a final
ruling on the case in the near future. The Het Comite spokesman said
it was very likely it would refer questions to the Appeal Court in
Luxembourg, and "as a result it could easily be another nine to 12
months before the matter is finally resolved." Meanwhile, the actions
by Dutch animal feed compounders are putting pressure on the commodity
board to urge the Dutch government to follow through on earlier
statements and seek a complete review in Brussels of the way in which
the levy is collected, the spokesman said. Het Comite, as a member of
FEFAC, the association of European animal feed manufacturers, is also
a party to actions protesting the whole levy in the Luxembourg appeal
court.

U.S. SENATE PANEL MAKES CONSERVATION EXEMPTION
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee approved a measure that would
exempt farmers who planted alfalfa or other multiyear grasses and
legumes between 1981 and 1985 from a federal conservation requirement.
Sen. Edward Zorinsky, D-Neb., said his bill would restore equity under
federal sodbuster rules, which currently deny farm program benefits to
farmers who, between 1981 and 1985, planted alfalfa and other
multiyear grasses and legumes without interrupting the plantings with
a row crop. An official from a leading conservation group, who asked
not to be identified, said the panel's move was "an unfortunate first
action" because it could lead to the exemption of potentially millions
of acres from the sod buster regulations, established under the 1985
farm bill.

CARGILL OFFICIAL DEFENDS CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS
    WASHINGTON, March 12 - 
The use of generic in-kind commodity certificates has helped ease
storage problems and is a necessary part of export promotion programs,
a senior executive for the world's largest grain company said.
Testifying before the House Agriculture subcommittee on wheat,
soybeans and feedgrains, Robbin Johnson, vice president of Cargill,
Inc., disputed claims that U.S. grain companies have made huge profits
from certificate trading. "The certs program is not in any way a
windfall to the trade," he said. Johnson said that Cargill has been
dealing with a two pct spread in certificate transactions, and that
this is within the normal grain marketing levels. Johnson recognized
current concern over the cost of certificates as compared to cash, but
said that critics need to look more closely at the savings caused by
certs, noting for example that widespread use of certs in the PIK and
Roll marketing technique last summer helped ease storage costs.
Certificates are also an important part of any export promotion
program, he said. "The more you look at ways to expand export markets,
the more you have to look at ways to expand certs to put more grain
into the market to meet demand," he said. Subcommittee chairman Dan
Glickman (D-Kans.) said his committee would be looking at the
certificate program later this year and studying the General
Accounting Office report on certificate costs.

U.S. CABINET COUNCIL SET TO MULL FARM ISSUES
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
The Reagan administration's cabinet-level Economic Policy Council is
scheduled to meet Friday to discuss, among other issues, the status of
agricultural legislation, administration officials said. The officials
said discussion of a U.S. Agriculture Department wheat export subsidy
to the Soviet Union was not on the agenda. Matters not on the agenda,
however, can be brought before the council, the officials said. Grain
trade officials have speculated that USDA would make a wheat export
enhancement offer to Moscow, but USDA officials have said the matter
is not under active consideration. USDA today transmitted to Congress
a package of legislative proposals, including bills that would cut
target prices and speed up loan rate reductions.

U.S. GRAIN CERTS SAVE 50-100 MLN DLRS - AMSTUTZ
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
The use of generic commodity certificates, or "certs," for fiscal
years 1986-88 will save the government 50 to 100 mln dlrs, Department
of Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said. Speaking at a House
agriculture subcommittee hearing on the use of the certificates,
Amstutz said that the issuance of 8.5 billion dlrs of certificates
during fiscal years 1986-88 could result in government outlays of up
to 400 mln dlrs. However, the use of certificates preclude the need
for 450 to 500 mln dlrs in storage and handling costs, resulting in
net savings for the government of 50-100 mln dlrs, he said. Without
the use of certificates, Amstutz said nearly the entire 1985 crop
which had been put under loan would have been forfeited to the
Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC. In addition, 260 mln bushels of
grain that have been redeemed from CCC inventory through certificate
exchanges would have remained in the goverment inventory, he said.
When asked to comment on a recent study by the General Accounting
Office that concluded certificates result in a net cost to the
government, Amstutz said, "GAO underestimated the benefits and
overstated the costs" of the certificate program. Amstutz said while
certificates encourage more loan entries, they also encourage heavier
loan redemptions rather than forfeitures. GAO underestimated this net
loan activity, Amstutz said. "There is no question in the mind of the
Department of Agriculture that these certificates have been very
useful," Amstutz said. Immediate benefits of certificates include
greater market liquidity, improved market price competitiveness,
higher farm income, and improved debt situation and decreased carrying
costs, he said. Certificates are an integral part of USDA's long-range
market-oriented farm policy, he said. Amstutz told subcommittee
Chairman Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kans., that USDA is in the process of
preparing an official response to the GAO study on certificates and
will submit it to the subcommittee when completed.

CHINA SAYS POSSIBLE GOOD HARVEST DESPITE DROUGHT
    PEKING, March 24 - 
China's summer grain harvest may be good despite a serious drought
because the State Council (cabinet) has spent one billion yuan on
irrigation and other anti-drought work, a Hong Kong newspaper said.
Wen Hui Bao said the drought, which has affected Shanxi, Hebei, Henan
and Shandong the most, has eased with March rains in south China and
March snowfall in the north and as some new irrigation projects have
come into use. "If the drought does not worsen, there is hope for a
bumper harvest," it quoted experts of the Ministry of Electric Power
as saying. They gave no figures. The 1986 summer grain harvest was a
record 93 mln tonnes, up from 92 mln in 1985, out of a total 1986
grain harvest of 391 mln. The 1987 target is 405 mln.

EC MEMBER STATES COOL ON CEREAL PLANS
    BRUSSELS, March 24 - 
European Community (EC) member states have generally given a cool
initial reaction to proposals by the European Commission for cereal
price changes and related measures in the coming season, EC diplomats
said. They said that in meetings of the EC Special Committee on
Agriculture representatives of most member states had said the
changes, taken together, would have too harsh an impact on farmers'
incomes. Only Britain and the Netherlands had shown willingness to
accept the commission's overall package, they said. As well as cuts of
over two pct in common prices for most cereals, the commission
proposes a limitation of intervention to the February to March period
and reduced monthly increments in intervention prices. EC Farm
Ministers will have a first discussion of the proposals at a meeting
beginning next Monday.

PORTUGUESE GRAIN AGENCY BAN TO REMAIN - EC SOURCES
    BRUSSELS, March 24 - 
A ban by a Portuguese court on the state buying agency EPAC taking
part in cereals import tenders open to private traders will remain
unless it is reversed in Portugal or challenged in the European Court
of Justice, European Commission sources said. They denied a statement
yesterday by Portuguese Agriculture Minister Alvaro Barreto that the
commission had accepted that EPAC should be eligible, saying it had
taken no view in the matter. Under the terms of Portugal's accession
to the European Community, a grain import monopoly held by EPAC is
being reduced by 20 pct annually until all imports are liberalised in
1990. Lisbon's civil court decided in a preliminary ruling earlier
this month that EPAC should not be allowed to take part, as it had
done in the past, in tenders for the liberalised share of annual grain
imports.

IWC ups Soviet grain 1986/87 import estimate three mln tonnes to 29 mln - official




RENEWAL OF U.S./USSR GRAIN PACT SAID UNCERTAIN
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
Prospects for renewal of the five-year U.S./USSR grains agreement are
uncertain at this point, a Soviet trade official told Reuters. The
current trade imbalance between the United States and the Soviet
Union, high U.S. commodity prices, and increased world grain
production make a renewal of the supply agreement next year less
certain, Albert Melnikov, deputy trade representative of the Soviet
Union, said in an interview. The current agreement expires on Sept 30,
1988. Melnikov said that world grain markets are different than when
the first agreement was signed in 1975. Statements from both U.S. and
Soviet officials have indicate that a long term grains agreement might
not be as attractive for both sides as it once was. "We have had one
agreement. We have had a second agreement, but with the second
agreement we've had difficulties with prices," Melnikov said. "I
cannot give you any forecasts in response to the future about the
agreement.... I do not want to speculate on what will happen after
Sept 30, 1988," he said. Melnikov noted that he has seen no
indications from Soviet government officials that they would be
pushing for a renewal of the agreement. "The situation is different in
comparison to three, five or ten years ago ... We can produce more,"
he said.

MORE U.S. GRAIN CERTIFICATES NEEDED, STUDY SAYS
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
More generic grain certificates should be released onto the market in
order for the U.S. certificate program to have its full effect on
commodities, according to a study by Sparks Commodities Inc. The
Agriculture Department should make grain deficiency payments and paid
land diversion payments in a two-third certificate, one-third cash
ratio through fiscal year 1989, Carroll Brunthaver, president of
Sparks Commodities, told a House agriculture subcommittee hearing on
certificates. Thereafter, government payments should be issued in
roughly a 50-50 split between cash and certificates, Brunthaver said.
The Sparks study on certificates examined two possible scenarios
through the 1990 growing season -- a "zero certificate case," where no
certificate program was assumed, and an alternative case labeled
"adequate certificate case" in which sufficient certificates would be
released so that grain prices would not be artificially supported by
market shortages due to acreage reduction programs or government
holdings. The study showed that total grain use under the adequate
certificate scenario would exceed the zero certificate scenario by
11.2 pct. Usage would be markedly more in 1989 and 1990, when grain
usage under a certificate program was estimated to exceed the zero
certificate case by 15 to 19 pct. For the five-year period examined,
government expenditures under the adequate certificate case were 7.0
billion dlrs, or 7.5 pct less than under the zero certificate case.
The Sparks study said that 5.1 billion dlrs, or 70 pct of those
savings resulted from smaller government storage costs. The study also
estimated that government grain stocks under the adequate certificate
case would be 4.7 billion bushels below the zero certificate case at
the end of the period examined. The Sparks study said that while
certificates permit market prices to fall below loan levels, these
lower prices increase commodity usage and reduce the net costs of
certificates versus cash.

USSR CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
Gradual warming continued in most regions of Western Soviet Union in
the week ended April 4, the Joint Agricultural Weather Facility of the
U.S Agriculture and Commerce Departments said. In its International
Weather and Crop Summary, the agency said most of the region's
precipitation fell as rain. The southern snow cover boundary continued
to slowly retreat northward and eastward, it said. Moderate to deep
snow cover the northern half of the Ukraine, northern North Caucasus,
and the lower Volga, about one month later than usual, it said. The
agency said average weekly temperatures were below normal in the
southeast, near normal in the southwest and northeast, and above
normal in the northwest. Winter grains remained dormant over the
region, but warm weather promoted greening in crop areas adjacent to
the Black Sea coast, it said.

USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 USSR GRAIN IMPORTS  26.0 MLN TONNES VS 23.0 IN FEB, 29.9 IN 1985/86




CEREALS MCAS TO BE UNCHANGED NEXT WEEK
    BRUSSELS, April 1 - 
Monetary compensatory amounts, MCA's, will be unchanged for the week
starting April 6, EC Commission officials said. Cereals MCA's are plus
2.4 points for West Germany and the Netherlands, minus two points for
Denmark, minus eight points for France, minus nine for Ireland, minus
5.7 for Italy, minus 25.7 for Britain, minus 44.1 for Greece and minus
10.5 for Spain.

GAO LIKELY TO SHOW CERTS MORE COSTLY THAN CASH
    WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - 
A study on grain certificates due out shortly from the Government
Accounting Office (GAO) could show that certificates cost the
government 10 to 15 pct more than cash outlays, administration and
industry sources said. Analysis that the GAO has obtained from the
Agriculture Department and the Office of Management and Budget
suggests that certificates cost more than cash payments, a GAO
official told Reuters. GAO is preparing the certificate study at the
specific request of Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), former chairman of the
senate agriculture committee. The report, which will focus on the cost
of certificates compared to cash, is scheduled to be released in mid
March. The cost of certificates, said the GAO source, depends on the
program's impact on the USDA loan program. If GAO determines that
certificates encourage more loan entries or cause more loan
forfeitures, then the net cost of the program would go up. However, if
it is determined that certificates have caused the government grain
stockpile to decrease, the cost effect of certificates would be less.
GAO will not likely suggest whether the certificates program should be
slowed or expanded, the GAO official said. But a negative report on
certificates "will fuel the fire against certificates and weigh
heavily on at least an increase in the certificate program," an
agricultural consultant said. The OMB is said to be against any
expansion of the program, while USDA remains firmly committed to it.

LYNG SAYS TOO LATE FOR CROP DECOUPLING THIS YEAR
    WASHINGTON, March 16 - 
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said it is too late to
implement a full 0/92 acreage provision, or "decoupling," for 1987
grain crops. "I think there's a chance we'll see that legislation
(0/92) passed, (but) not for 1987 crops. It's too late," Lyng told the
National Grain and Feed Association convention here. Lyng added that
there seems some support in Congress for 0/92 and there was a good
chance a pilot 0/92 program will be passed as part of a pending
disaster bill. But he indicated that it is already too late in the
year to alter the 1987 crop program. Sign-up for spring crops closes
the end of this month. Overall, Lyng predicted very little change will
be legislated in the 1985 farm bill this year.

U.S. SENATOR UNCOMMITTED ON OFFERING 0/92 BILL
    WASHINGTON, March 16 - 
Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, ranking Republican on the U.S.
Senate Agriculture Committee, has not decided whether to introduce an
administration-backed bill to apply the so-called 0/92 provision to
1988 through 1990 grain crops, an aide to the senator said. The Reagan
administration has asked Lugar to offer the measure, the aide said.
However, a number of farm groups have told Lugar they oppose the
proposal on the grounds it would reopen the 1985 farm bill, and the
senator has decided to take a second look at the proposal, the aide
said. Last week the aide indicated Lugar was planning to offer the
0/92 measure and a bill to tighten a payment limitation loophole.

EEP SHOULD BE USED TACTICALLY, YEUTTER SAYS
    WASHINGTON, March 16 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said the Export Enhancement
Program, EEP, should be used as a "tactical tool" and not as a general
policy. Yeutter made the comment in response to a question whether the
U.S. should expand the EEP to cover grain sales to the Soviet Union.
He did not comment directly on the Soviet question, replying that any
decision would be made at the highest levels of the Reagan
administration, and "I don't want to preempt that." Yeutter told the
National Grain and Feed Association EEP should continue to be used as
a tactical tool against the European Community but not as a general
policy. He said selective EEP use has been successful in pressuring
the E.C.

U.S. GRAIN CARLOADINGS FALL IN WEEK
    WASHINGTON, April 3 - 
U.S. grain carloadings totaled 25,744 cars in the week ended March 28,
down 4.3 pct from the previous week but 41.6 pct above the
corresponding week a year ago, the Association of American Railroads
reported. Grain mill product loadings in the week totalled 10,920
cars, up 0.1 pct from the previous week and 12.7 pct above the same
week a year earlier, the association said.

USDA ASKS TIGHT INSECT RULES FOR GRAIN SHIPMENTS
    WASHINGTON, March 19 - 
The U.S. Agriculture Department is proposing tighter federal standards
setting allowable limits on insect infestations in grain shipments.
The changes in the standards would include the following: --
Establishing equal tolerances for the number of live insects in
shipments of food grains, feed grains and oilseeds. -- Revising the
definition of "infested" to give equal value to all insects injurious
to grain. -- Establishing lower levels of infestations. In 1988, the
infested level would be set at three or more live insects per
representative sample (about 100 grams), in 1990 two or more insects,
and in 1992 the final infestattion level would be set at one or more
live insects per representative sample. -- Revising the definition of
sample grade by adding a limit of 10 live or dead insects per sample.
-- Revising the definition of sample grade for wheat by adding a limit
of 32 insect-damaged kernels per 100 grams of wheat. The department
asked for public comments on the proposals by April 17.

USDA OFFICIAL SEES 7-8 BILLION DLRS CERTIFICATES
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
There will be seven to eight billion dlrs of generic certificates on
the market by the end of harvest, an Agriculture Department official
said. The Commodity Credit Corp will "depend heavily" on certificates
to relieve storage problems this year, Ralph Klopfenstein, Deputy
Administrator for Commodity Operations, USDA, told participants at the
National Grain and Feed Association's annual convention. Klopfenstein
said that CCC will not be able to relocate grain in any significant
amount this fall, so certificates will be used in various programs to
relieve storage tightness. Klopfenstein said certificates meet the
goal of allowing prices to go below loan levels and providing USDA
with an inventory management tool.

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - CHINA MUST PRESERVE FARMLAND
    FENGBANG COUNTY, China, April 1 - 
"If we go on using up farmland as we have done since 1980, there will
be none left in 20 years to grow grain on." Xu Jinfeng, a middle-aged
official in Fengbang village on the edge of Shanghai, sums up the
dilemma China faces as it tries to feed its more than one billion
people and at the same time let them get richer by building factories
and new homes. China has to feed one quarter of the world's
population, but only one seventh of its land is arable. Sharp
increases in farm output since 1979 turned China into a net grain
exporter for the first time in 1985, and again in 1986. But the rapid
industrialisation of the countryside which has occurred at the same
time, has gobbled up arable land for factories and homes for peasants
who can now afford them. Official figures show that China lost just
under one pct of its arable land to other uses in 1985 and a slightly
smaller amount last year. It gained 26 mln new mouths to feed during
the two years. "We lost very little land prior to 1980 when the
industrialisation began," official Xu said. "Since then, nearly all
the families in the county have built new homes and many factories
have gone up." "Last year we lost land to a new railway line," Xu
said. But land losses in future should fall because nearly all
families already have new houses, she added. The issue of land loss is
a matter of major concern to the Peking leadership, which announced
earlier this month that China will issue nationwide quotas for
conversion of grain land for the first time this year. "The present
situation of abusing, occupying unlawfully, wasting and destroying
land and land resources is serious," said an article in the official
press explaining the new measures. "It has resulted in great losses of
cultivated farmland," it said. "China has a large population and its
land resources are badly deficient." An official of the Shanghai city
government said county authorities could approve conversion of only
0.3 hectares of arable land to other uses, while anything more than
that must be approved by the city government. The Peking government
faces another major obstacle in its efforts to ensure China's people
get enough grain to eat. The prices the state pays to farmers for
grain are too low, making it more profitable for them to grow other
crops. To offset this, the state offers farmers cheap fertiliser and
diesel oil and payment in advance for grain it contracts to buy. The
state then sells the grain at subsidised prices to China's 200 mln
city residents. Rural factories also subsidise grain output, paying
farmers bonuses to grow it. Some officials argue that the simplest
solution to the problem would be for the state to raise city grain
prices. Chen Zuyuan, Communist Party secretary of a village in the
eastern province of Zhejiang, said the government listened too much to
the demands of "selfish city people" and could raise city grain prices
without any problem. But the government has ruled out a price rise.
"Raising the price of grain would directly conflict with the goal of
social stability," said a China Daily editorial this month. The
Shanghai official said prices must be reformed over the long term. "We
must be very careful. We have a very large population which is used to
price stability and will object to price rises," he said. "The problem
is how to do it." The Shanghai official said a rise in grain prices
might also affect the prices of hundreds of food products made with
grain and consumed by city residents. In addition, the state faces the
problem of inadequate investment by farmers in land and in grain in
particular. The official press has reported that farmers fear farm
policy may change and they are putting their new wealth into building
graves, memorial halls for ancestors and homes. Under reforms
introduced in the late 1970s, farmers sign contracts with the state
requiring them to grow certain crops, but they have considerable
freedom in how to use their land. "As the expiration date of the
15-year contract is almost at the halfway mark, farmers are beginning
to worry about the future," the China Daily said in an editorial last
month. Their anxieties stem from the fact that they are allowed to use
the land but not own it. For most of the period of Communist rule, the
land was organised into collectives where there was little room for
individual initiative. "New measures are needed to reassure them of
the consistency of government policies and make them interested in
long-term investment," the newspaper said.

U.S. GRAIN CARLOADINGS FALL IN WEEK
    WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - 
U.S. grain carloadings totaled 26,108 cars in the week ended February
21, down 2.2 pct from the previous week but 22.8 pct above the
corresponding week a year ago, the Association of American Railroads
reported. Grain mill product loadings in the week totalled 11,382
cars, down 1.8 pct from the previous week but 7.6 pct above the same
week a year earlier, the association said.

IOWA GRAIN ELEVATOR EXPLODES, BURNS
    BANCROFT, Iowa, April 7 - 
An explosion and fire today damaged a grain elevator in Bancroft,
Iowa, destroying thousands of bushels of grain, authorities said. The
pre-dawn explosion ripped the wooden elevator open, and a fire that
followed continued burning at late morning but had been contained,
according to a dispatcher at the Algona Police Department. No injuries
were reported at the Lone Rock Coop facility. The dispatcher said the
elevator was filled with corn, and a nearby drying building holding
soybeans was on fire. The explosion was the second in four days in
Iowa following the destruction of an Archer Daniels Midland elevator
in Burlington last Friday.

SOUTHEAST CHINA CROPS SAVED BY HEAVY RAIN
    PEKING, March 17 - 
The heaviest rains for seven months are believed to have saved more
than one mln hectares of drought-threatened crops in southeast China,
the official New China News Agency said. This week's rains have
alleviated drought conditions in Guangdong Province, the agency said.
China has warned that this year's harvest will be affected by drought
in many areas.

SOVIET GRAIN PRODUCTS MINISTRY CRITICISED
    MOSCOW, April 7 - 
The Soviet Communist Party has criticised the country's Grain Products
Ministry for failing to ensure proper grain storage, turning out poor
quality bread and for unsatisfactory book keeping, Pravda said. The
party daily said that losses in the industry owing to waste and theft
amounted to 7.3 mln roubles over the last two and a half years. The
situation was particularly bad in the Central Asian republic of
Kazakhstan, which has been severely criticised since the ousting of
its veteran leader Dinmukhamed Kunayev last December. Its new leader,
Gennady Kolbin, has said that at times the grain-growing republic has
performed so badly that it has been obliged to seek grain supplies
from national reserves. Tass news agency announced yesterday that
Grain Products Minister Grigory Zolotukhin, 75, was being retired and
replaced by Alexander Budyka, a senior food industry official. Pravda
added today that the crisis in the industry had been drawn to
Zolotukhin's attention and two of his deputies reprimanded.

TRADE PROPOSES NEW EC GRAIN INTERVENTION RULES
    BRUSSELS, March 23 - 
The European Community (EC) cereals trade lobby organisation Coceral
said it has written to EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen to
propose a new system for sales into intervention, which it claims
could save the EC budget money. It proposes that applications for
intervention be made through a certificate valid for execution three
months later. If during the three months the trader found a market
elsewhere, he could buy back the certificate on payment of a one pct
premium. Coceral argues that this would restore the original function
of intervention as a safety net and would end the present situation in
which produce is often sold into intervention as a precaution.

U.S. CONGRESS TO LOOK AT SOIL PROGRAM EXEMPTIONS
     WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
The Senate Agriculture Committee is expected to take up a bill
tomorrow that would exempt from government conservation regulations
those farmers who have rotated alfalfa and other multiyear grasses and
legumes with row crops, committee staff said. Under current so-called
"sodbuster" law, farmers who planted alfalfa and other multiyear
grasses and legumes on highly erodible land in the years 1981 through
1985 lose federal farm program benefits if they produce a row crop on
that land in later years. Sen. Edward Zorinsky (D-Neb.), sponsor of
the measure, said recently that those crop rotating practices resulted
in less erosion than the practices of many farmers who produced
strictly row crops.

ADM GRAIN ELEVATOR EXPLODES IN BURLINGTON, IOWA
    CHICAGO, April 3 - 
A grain elevator in Burlington, Iowa, exploded today, leaving five
injured. The elevator, operated by Archer Daniels Midland Co. of
Decatur, Ill., is a terminal elevator on the Mississippi River, Doug
Snyder, assistant to the vice president said. The cause of the
explosion and the extent of damage to the elevator was not immediatley
known.

CHINA TO IMPORT MORE GRAIN IN 1987
    HANGZHOU, China, March 17 - 
China's grain imports will rise in 1987 because of a serious drought
and increasing demand, but will be not be as large as in the past,
Chinese officials and Japanese traders told Reuters. They said foreign
exchange constraints and national policy would not allow a return to
large-scale imports, which peaked at 16.15 mln tonnes in 1982. An
agricultural official of the Shanghai government put maximum imports
at about 10 mln tonnes this year, against 7.73 mln in 1986 and 5.97
mln in 1985. Officials said grain imports rose in 1986 because of a
poor harvest and rising domestic demand, but remained below exports,
which rose to 9.42 mln tonnes from 9.33 mln in 1985. "China is short
of foreign exchange," the Shanghai official said. "We cannot rely on
imports, even at current low world prices. Only if there is a major
disaster will we become a major importer." A Japanese trader in Peking
said Chinese grain imports would rise and exports fall this year
because of the drought, low world prices and rising domestic demand
for human and animal consumption. "At current prices, China loses yuan
on every tonne of grain it exports, though it earns foreign exchange
which it badly needs," the trader said. The People's Daily said last
Saturday a serious drought is affecting 13.3 mln hectares of arable
land, which will reduce the summer grain harvest from last year's
level. The paper added that leaders in some areas were not paying
enough attention to agriculture, especially grain, making it difficult
to achieve the 1987 grain output target of 405 mln tonnes against 391
mln in 1986. "All areas must spare no effort to raise the autumn
harvest area, especially of corn, sweet potatoes, paddy rice and high-
yield cash crops," it said. It added factory production might have to
be reduced to provide electricity for agriculture if it was needed to
fight the drought. Since January, the press has devoted much attention
to grain, stressing that growth in output is vital to China's economic
and political stability and that prices paid to farmers are too low.
Officials in east China have repeatedly said stable grain production
is a key state policy and outlined the measures being taken in their
areas to encourage output. The Shanghai official said that in one
suburb, 10 pct of the pre-tax profits of factories are used to
subsidise agriculture. He said rural industries in other suburbs also
set aside money for grain and pay the salaries of some of the 70,000
workers available to help farmers. Chu Jinfeng, an official of
Fengbing county outside Shanghai, said factory workers get 60 yuan a
month and three years unpaid leave to grow grain and can keep the
profits. Pan Huashan, an official of the agricultural department of
Zhejiang Province, said rural industry also subsidises grain output in
his province. "In addition, we are setting up grain production bases,
raising the level of science and technology on the farms and improving
the supply of raw materials, roads and other infrastructure," he said.
The Shanghai official said rural residents who work in industry or
commerce usually keep their land to farm in their spare time, or let
other family members farm it. In some cases, they lease the land to
grain farmers. The China Daily said last month that grain output
should reach between 425 and 450 mln tonnes by 1990 and between 480
and 500 mln by 2000. It said growing grain should be made profitable.
"The advantages the state promises grain growers actually yield
tangible profits for them and are not siphoned off by intermediate
agencies because of bureaucracy or corruption. Only this will boost
enthusiasm," it said.

REPORT ON EXPORT MARKETS FOR U.S. GRAIN DELAYED
    WASHINGTON, March 30 - 
The U.S. Agriculture Department's report on Export Markets for U.S.
Grain, scheudled for release today, has been delayed until Wednesday,
April 1, a department spokeswoman said. No reason was given for the
delay in releasing the monthly report.

NO PROOF OF MORE CHERNOBYL GRAIN DAMAGE-DIPLOMATS
    MOSCOW, March 24 - 
Western agricultural attaches in Moscow said they had no evidence to
substantiate rumours that last April's Chernobyl nuclear disaster had
a worse effect on Soviet grain than first reported. Current Soviet
interest in chartering ships to carry grain from the U.S. Helped
prompt the rumours on world markets. But the diplomats said they had
seen no reports in the state press and heard no comments from
officials to substantiate them. The official media was initially slow
in reporting the accident but, under Kremlin leader Mikhail
Gorbachev's campaign for openness, gradually gave more and more
details. Land around the nuclear plant was contaminated to varying
degrees. Some is now being used to grow industrial crops instead of
grain.

USDA ESTIMATES 1986 SOVIET GRAIN CROP  AT 210 MLN TONNES VS 210 IN FEB, 192 YEAR-AGO




CBT DISCUSSES MAJOR CHANGES FOR RENOVATION
    CHICAGO, March 9 - 
Chicago Board of Trade (CBT) agricultural and financial futures
markets could be in for a period of major upheaval later this year if
the exchange goes ahead with planned renovation. A CBT spokesman told
Reuters the exchange was looking at a number of options to identify
the most cost effective and efficient way to proceed, including one
which would involve moving the entire grains floor out of the building
and into the nearby MidAmerica Commodity Exchange. "One of (CBT
Chairman) Karsten Mahlmann's agenda items has been to proceed with
renovation in the financial futures room," the spokesman said. Another
CBT official, executive vice president George Sladoje, said the issue
would be discussed this Friday at a special meeting on the exchange
floor. A number of presentations have been made with regard to
renovating the financial futures room, Sladoje said. "We've looked at
five or six different alternatives, involving such things as flip-
flopping the trading rooms," he added. It is conceivable that under a
couple of these plans, we might use the MidAmerica Exchange
temporarily for some CBT markets, Sladoje said. "If we move out of one
floor entirely, then the construction period will be about a year," he
said, adding that the issue was likely to go to a membership vote
first and then be on the drawing board for eight months to a year. The
CBT spokesman stressed that discussions were very preliminary at this
stage and nothing was likely to begin until this summer at the
earliest. In order to renovate the crowded financial futures pits,
exchange officials have discussed providing them a temporary home next
door in the present grains-dominated area. This could involve moving
CBT markets in U.S. Treasury Bond futures, Treasury Notes, Muni-bonds,
and options on T-Bonds and T-Notes through an adjoining corridor,
while utilizing the MidAmerica floor for such CBT futures contracts as
corn, wheat, soybeans, soybean products and agricultural options. Any
such moves could meet with opposition among some CBT members. One
senior floor trader said the financial futures room badly needs
renovating. "There is talk the grains floor will shift to the MidAm
and the financials will move to the grains area," he said. The CBT
spokesman said another option being discussed was to renovate the
financial floor in quadrants, one quarter at a time. "The first step,
after deciding the most effective way to proceed, would be to get
architectural and engineering drawings," he said. He added that it was
difficult at present to determine an exact time frame for any possible
moves. "This is a major undertaking and a process that would spread
out over next year," he said. Floor traders at the MidAmerica
Commodity Exchange, which merged with the CBT about a year ago, said
they were preparing to vacate their floor at the end of this month.
Space has recently been cleared for them at the CBT by moving its
Major Market Index pit into the area once reserved for lightly-traded
CBT gold and silver futures, which now share their trading area. The
MidAm specializes in mini-contracts in grains, livestock, metals,
financials and foreign currencies as well as some options contracts.
"Rumor has it that the CBT grains are coming over here because the
bonds are too crowded," one MidAm trader said. Another source at the
MidAm said this change could take place by July or August.

IZVESTIA SAYS SOVIET WINTER CROPS NEED RESEEDING
    MOSCOW, March 4 - 
The government daily Izvestia said a considerable amount of Soviet
winter crops need to be reseeded and the state 1987 grain harvest
target of 232 mln tonnes will not be easy to fulfil. Without giving
figures, the newspaper said: "A considerable part of the winter crops
must be reseeded, but that creates extra effort in the fields in
spring." The Soviet Union has previously said nine mln hectares of
winter grain will have to be reseeded because of winterkill. A U.S.
Department of Agriculture analyst in Washington has said the figure of
nine mln hectares would equal about 25 pct of the total winter crop
and would be the second highest winterkill in 10 years. "The planned
task of bringing in no less than 232 mln tonnes of grain is not
simple," Izvestia said. This week's sudden fall in temperatures has
affected large parts of the country and has caused fieldwork to stop
in the Ukraine, it said, adding that temperatures fell to as low as
minus 30 centigrade in Byelorussia.

SOVIET GRAINS SEEN ENTERING SPRING ON SHAKY NOTE
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
Soviet winter grains could be off to a faulty start this spring after
enduring an usually dry fall and cold winter, weather and crop
analysts said. Prospects for another near-record grain harvest in the
Soviet Union appear dim at this point, but it is premature to forecast
any major crop problems, analysts said. But the situation bears
careful watching over the next six weeks and will ultimately impact
the Soviet grain supply and future buying plans, analysts of the
Soviet Union said. "From a weather standpoint, you can say with
certainty that the Soviets are not getting off to a good start and
will have a lower crop (than last year)," Gail Martell, chief
meteorologist for E.F. Hutton said. The next six weeks in the USSR's
grain growing areas will be the crucial period that will determine the
final outcome of the winter crops, Martell and other analysts said.
"Where the crop is really made or broken is still ahead of us," an
Agriculture Department authority on the USSR said. The Soviet Union
recently reported that nine mln hectares of winter grain will have to
be reseeded due to winterkill. This would be equal to about 25 pct of
the total winter crop and would be the second highest winterkill in
ten years, the USDA analyst said. With a timely spring, Soviet farmers
would probably be able to reseed the damaged acreage with spring
crops, but analysts noted that spring crops normally yield lower than
winter crops -- sometimes as much as 30-35 pct lower. Normally
winterkill is caused by inadequate snowcover combined with cold
temperatures. This winter, however, snowcover in Soviet grain areas
has generally been excellent, so the bulk of winterkill, analysts
speculate, likely has been due to a very dry fall and subsequent poor
crop germination. "Fall dryness may be a problem. There's a good
correlation between mediocre crops and fall dryness," Martell said.
Precipitation last fall was as little as 25 pct of normal in southern
and northern Ukraine, and below normal over the entire winter crop
area, she said. Recent cold temperatures in grain areas in which the
snowcover has been gradually melting could also have caused problems
of ice-crusting and winterkill, Jim Candor, senior forecaster for Accu
Weather, said. Livestock feed needs have probably increased because of
the fall and winter, analysts said. The dry fall damaged pastures, the
cold winter raised feed demands and a late spring would require longer
off-pasture feeding, they said. "The Soviets are not in a desperate
situation ... they don't have to buy (grains) now," a USDA official
said. But if the Soviets are worried about their winter crops and if
they feel that last year's huge crop of 210 mln tonnes was a one-time
fluke brought on by perfect conditions, more Soviet buying might occur
to insure crop supplies, he said. Bad weather during the next six
weeks could push the Soviets back into the market, weather analysts
said. "A lot of winterkill could occur during the next month and a
half," Martell said.

SOVIETS SAID TO SEE NEW FLOOR FOR GRAIN OUTPUT
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
The intensive technology concept for grain production has put a new
floor under USSR grain production, the U.S. Agriculture Department's
officer in Moscow said in a field report. The report, quoting a
broadcast on Radio Moscow, said that due to intensive technology grain
production in a "bad year" will not fall below 200 mln tonnes, and in
a "good year" grain production could reach 250 mln tonnes. The U.S.
Agriculture Department currently forecasts this year's USSR crop at
210.1 mln tonnes, and if realized this would be the third year since
1975 that the Soviet Union's grain harvest has exceeded 200.0 mln
tonnes. The largest crop since 1975 was 237.4 mln tonnes harvested in
1978, according to USDA data.

USDA GRAIN INSPECTION ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
    WASHINGTON, April 1 - 
The Federal Grain Inspection Service Advisory Committee will meet here
Monday, April 13, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. Items on the
agenda for the meeting, which is scheduled to begin at 0830 edt, are
grain-quality issues, status of proposed regulations, financial
matters and safety matters, the department said. The Federal Grain
Inspection Service Advisory Committee is composed of 12 members
representing the grain industry who provide advice to the
administrator of the Federal Grain Inspection Service.

JAPAN STUDY URGES FOREIGN ACCESS TO FARM MARKETS
    TOKYO, April 3 - 
Japan should increase foreign access to its farm products market,
while encouraging further development of domestic agriculture, a
government report said. The white paper on agriculture for the year
ended March 31 said active participation in writing world farm trade
rules at the next round of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) talks will help prepare Japan to improve access. Agriculture
Ministry sources said the paper marked an easing in Japan's tough
position on agricultural imports which stressed the need for strict
controls on some products to maintain self-sufficiency in food. Japan
now produces only 30 pct of its annual grain needs, down from 61 pct
some 20 years ago, official figures show. The paper said Japanese
agriculture has been slow to improve productivity and demand/supply
imbalances. The relative shortage of farmland in Japan is mainly
responsible for higher domestic prices, it said. The strong yen has
meant lower input material prices but has also resulted in higher
agricultural imports which has worsened working conditions among part-
time farmers, the paper said. This could make it difficult to improve
the industry's structure, the paper said. To solve these problems and
to reduce farm product prices to more reasonable levels, Japan should
try to restructure the the agricultural sector to improve productivity
and make it self-supporting, it said.

ILLINOIS CO-OP FUTURES DISSOLUTION VOTE SET
    CHICAGO, March 24 - 
The shareholders of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co., the futures
trading arm of many Midwest farm cooperatives for more than 25 years,
will vote Wednesday on its possible dissolution. The directors of the
company called a special meeting and recommended its dissolution last
month, citing falling volume and increasing costs. Sources close to
the organization told Reuters the pullout of Growmark, Inc., which
holds more than 70 pct of the capital stock, led to the call for
dissolution. The possible demise of the cooperative has set clearing
houses scrambling for the trading business of the 85 regional and
local cooperatives that comprise its membership. Ironically, it was
Growmark, at that time a regional farm cooperative with major river
terminal elevators, that founded Illinois Cooperative Futures on
December 1, 1960. But Growmark became affiliated last year with Archer
Daniels Midland of Decatur, Ill., and markets its grain through a
joint subsidiary of the two companies, ADM/Growmark. With that
relationship, Growmark no longer needs to trade futures through the
cooperative, said Tom Mulligan, president of the co-op. Membership in
the company, which Mulligan termed a cooperative of cooperatives, has
declined from 99 in 1982. A notable loss was AgriIndustries of Iowa,
which became affiliated with Cargill, Inc. Illinois Co-op's other
members include such regional cooperatives as Indiana Grain, based in
Indianapolis, Goldkist, of Atlanta, Ga., Midstates in Toledo, Ohio,
Farmland Industries in Kansas City, Mo., Farmers Commodities, Des
Moines, and Harvest States in Minneapolis. Some observors said the
demise of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co. is a serious blow to the
cooperative system. Instead of banding together, the individual
cooperatives are forced to go their own ways, said the floor manager
of one cash house at the Chicago Board of Trade. Such a move would
destroy the cohesiveness that gives farm cooperatives an advantage in
the market at a time that a few major commercial companies are growing
dominant, he said. Don Hanes, vice president for communications with
the National Council of Farm Cooperatives, said 5,600 cooperatives
exist today, down from 6,700 five years ago. "The period we've gone
through in the past five years has been quite a crunch," he said.
"There's been a lot of consolidation in the marketing co-ops." One
problem, he said, is the co-ops sell the grain to the major
commercials for export, rather than exporting it themselves, losing
potential profits. But exporting grain requires heavy investments, and
the multi-million-dollar loss posted six years ago by Farmers Export
Co., a co-op set up to export grains, served "to make folks gun-shy,"
Hanes said. Mulligan said he believes the dissolution, if it is
approved, is a result of change in the futures industry rather than a
change in U.S. agricultural economics. A grain dealer at one member
co-op said the futures arm "was a convenience, something that saved us
a little bit of money. (Its dissolution) will force us to change our
way of doing business." "We're sorry to see the co-op go by the
wayside," he said. "But there are lot of people out there to do
business with. There are plenty of capable firms." Steven W.
Cavanaugh, vice president for grain marketing with Indiana Grain, said
he would prefer to trade futures through a Chicago-based cooperative.
"In terms of clearing our business as a unit as opposed to
individuals, there would be economic savings," he said but added, "The
times change and with changing times, come different opinions of what
businesses ought to be around." Cavanaugh said the possible demise of
the futures arm had nothing to do with its profitability. "I would
guarantee you that this company is not in trouble. It is a sound,
healthy organization." In the year ended February 28, 1986, the
Illinois Cooperative reported income of 10.2 mln dlrs and members'
equity, or net worth, of 8.3 mln dlrs. The annual report for the most
recent year has not been filed. Under the cooperative system, income
from operations is returned as "patronage refunds" to the members.
Income and refunds in the past five years have been declining. In the
year ended February 28, 1982, the co-op reported income of 17.4 mln
dlrs and patronage refunds of 17.0 mln dlrs. Patronage refunds in the
year ended February 28, 1986, totalled 9.5 mln dlrs. "You're dealing
with substantially lower volume," Mulligan said. "Lower volume
translates into higher costs." According to the company's 1986 annual
report, Growmark owns 90 pct of the preferred shares and four pct of
the common shares of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co. Mulligan
declined to speculate on how much of the capital Growmark is entitled
to. He said he could not determine the figure unless the shareholders
decide in favor of dissolution. Equity is distributed according to
each member's trading volume and, as a result, changes from year to
year. However, Mulligan said the company could continue to meet
minimum capital requirements to trade futures even if Growmark pulled
out.

DUTCH GRAIN LEVY TEST CASE TO START IN APRIL
    ROTTERDAM, March 26 - 
A large Dutch animal feed compounder will begin formal legal
proceedings early next month as a test case on the way the EC grain
co-responsibility levy is applied, a spokesman for Dutch grain and
feed trade association, Het Comite, told Reuters. Het Comite has been
co-ordinating national actions against alleged distortions caused by
currency factors in the levy and, since December, has lodged more than
80 individual cases with the Business Appeal Court in The Hague. The
basic complaint is that the levy does not take account of currency
cross-rates of exchange and therefore compounders in countries with
strong currencies may have to pay more in their own currency than is
paid to them by producers in another country. Het Comite has obtained
a temporary agreement that companies can pay the amount they receive
toward the levy rather than paying a full guilder amount to the Dutch
grain commodity board. The spokesman said Het Comite will provide
financial and legal backing to the test case in the Business
Administration Court in the Hague. Oral proceedings are to begin on
April 10. The spokesman said Het Comite finally selected the company
for the test case from among the 80 lodged "because the bill (the
firm) received from the commodity board for payment of the levy
contained significant currency distortions and involved grain from a
wide variety of origins." The name of the company is not being made
public. The Administration Court is not expected to make a final
ruling on the case in the near future. The Het Comite spokesman said
it was very likely it would refer questions to the Appeal Court in
Luxembourg, and "as a result it could easily be another nine to 12
months before the matter is finally resolved." Meanwhile, the actions
by Dutch animal feed compounders are putting pressure on the commodity
board to urge the Dutch government to follow through on earlier
statements and seek a complete review in Brussels of the way in which
the levy is collected, the spokesman said. Het Comite, as a member of
FEFAC, the association of European animal feed manufacturers, is also
a party to actions protesting the whole levy in the Luxembourg appeal
court.

U.S. SENATE PANEL MAKES CONSERVATION EXEMPTION
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee approved a measure that would
exempt farmers who planted alfalfa or other multiyear grasses and
legumes between 1981 and 1985 from a federal conservation requirement.
Sen. Edward Zorinsky, D-Neb., said his bill would restore equity under
federal sodbuster rules, which currently deny farm program benefits to
farmers who, between 1981 and 1985, planted alfalfa and other
multiyear grasses and legumes without interrupting the plantings with
a row crop. An official from a leading conservation group, who asked
not to be identified, said the panel's move was "an unfortunate first
action" because it could lead to the exemption of potentially millions
of acres from the sod buster regulations, established under the 1985
farm bill.

CARGILL OFFICIAL DEFENDS CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS
    WASHINGTON, March 12 - 
The use of generic in-kind commodity certificates has helped ease
storage problems and is a necessary part of export promotion programs,
a senior executive for the world's largest grain company said.
Testifying before the House Agriculture subcommittee on wheat,
soybeans and feedgrains, Robbin Johnson, vice president of Cargill,
Inc., disputed claims that U.S. grain companies have made huge profits
from certificate trading. "The certs program is not in any way a
windfall to the trade," he said. Johnson said that Cargill has been
dealing with a two pct spread in certificate transactions, and that
this is within the normal grain marketing levels. Johnson recognized
current concern over the cost of certificates as compared to cash, but
said that critics need to look more closely at the savings caused by
certs, noting for example that widespread use of certs in the PIK and
Roll marketing technique last summer helped ease storage costs.
Certificates are also an important part of any export promotion
program, he said. "The more you look at ways to expand export markets,
the more you have to look at ways to expand certs to put more grain
into the market to meet demand," he said. Subcommittee chairman Dan
Glickman (D-Kans.) said his committee would be looking at the
certificate program later this year and studying the General
Accounting Office report on certificate costs.

U.S. CABINET COUNCIL SET TO MULL FARM ISSUES
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
The Reagan administration's cabinet-level Economic Policy Council is
scheduled to meet Friday to discuss, among other issues, the status of
agricultural legislation, administration officials said. The officials
said discussion of a U.S. Agriculture Department wheat export subsidy
to the Soviet Union was not on the agenda. Matters not on the agenda,
however, can be brought before the council, the officials said. Grain
trade officials have speculated that USDA would make a wheat export
enhancement offer to Moscow, but USDA officials have said the matter
is not under active consideration. USDA today transmitted to Congress
a package of legislative proposals, including bills that would cut
target prices and speed up loan rate reductions.

U.S. GRAIN CERTS SAVE 50-100 MLN DLRS - AMSTUTZ
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
The use of generic commodity certificates, or "certs," for fiscal
years 1986-88 will save the government 50 to 100 mln dlrs, Department
of Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said. Speaking at a House
agriculture subcommittee hearing on the use of the certificates,
Amstutz said that the issuance of 8.5 billion dlrs of certificates
during fiscal years 1986-88 could result in government outlays of up
to 400 mln dlrs. However, the use of certificates preclude the need
for 450 to 500 mln dlrs in storage and handling costs, resulting in
net savings for the government of 50-100 mln dlrs, he said. Without
the use of certificates, Amstutz said nearly the entire 1985 crop
which had been put under loan would have been forfeited to the
Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC. In addition, 260 mln bushels of
grain that have been redeemed from CCC inventory through certificate
exchanges would have remained in the goverment inventory, he said.
When asked to comment on a recent study by the General Accounting
Office that concluded certificates result in a net cost to the
government, Amstutz said, "GAO underestimated the benefits and
overstated the costs" of the certificate program. Amstutz said while
certificates encourage more loan entries, they also encourage heavier
loan redemptions rather than forfeitures. GAO underestimated this net
loan activity, Amstutz said. "There is no question in the mind of the
Department of Agriculture that these certificates have been very
useful," Amstutz said. Immediate benefits of certificates include
greater market liquidity, improved market price competitiveness,
higher farm income, and improved debt situation and decreased carrying
costs, he said. Certificates are an integral part of USDA's long-range
market-oriented farm policy, he said. Amstutz told subcommittee
Chairman Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kans., that USDA is in the process of
preparing an official response to the GAO study on certificates and
will submit it to the subcommittee when completed.

CHINA SAYS POSSIBLE GOOD HARVEST DESPITE DROUGHT
    PEKING, March 24 - 
China's summer grain harvest may be good despite a serious drought
because the State Council (cabinet) has spent one billion yuan on
irrigation and other anti-drought work, a Hong Kong newspaper said.
Wen Hui Bao said the drought, which has affected Shanxi, Hebei, Henan
and Shandong the most, has eased with March rains in south China and
March snowfall in the north and as some new irrigation projects have
come into use. "If the drought does not worsen, there is hope for a
bumper harvest," it quoted experts of the Ministry of Electric Power
as saying. They gave no figures. The 1986 summer grain harvest was a
record 93 mln tonnes, up from 92 mln in 1985, out of a total 1986
grain harvest of 391 mln. The 1987 target is 405 mln.

EC MEMBER STATES COOL ON CEREAL PLANS
    BRUSSELS, March 24 - 
European Community (EC) member states have generally given a cool
initial reaction to proposals by the European Commission for cereal
price changes and related measures in the coming season, EC diplomats
said. They said that in meetings of the EC Special Committee on
Agriculture representatives of most member states had said the
changes, taken together, would have too harsh an impact on farmers'
incomes. Only Britain and the Netherlands had shown willingness to
accept the commission's overall package, they said. As well as cuts of
over two pct in common prices for most cereals, the commission
proposes a limitation of intervention to the February to March period
and reduced monthly increments in intervention prices. EC Farm
Ministers will have a first discussion of the proposals at a meeting
beginning next Monday.

PORTUGUESE GRAIN AGENCY BAN TO REMAIN - EC SOURCES
    BRUSSELS, March 24 - 
A ban by a Portuguese court on the state buying agency EPAC taking
part in cereals import tenders open to private traders will remain
unless it is reversed in Portugal or challenged in the European Court
of Justice, European Commission sources said. They denied a statement
yesterday by Portuguese Agriculture Minister Alvaro Barreto that the
commission had accepted that EPAC should be eligible, saying it had
taken no view in the matter. Under the terms of Portugal's accession
to the European Community, a grain import monopoly held by EPAC is
being reduced by 20 pct annually until all imports are liberalised in
1990. Lisbon's civil court decided in a preliminary ruling earlier
this month that EPAC should not be allowed to take part, as it had
done in the past, in tenders for the liberalised share of annual grain
imports.

IWC ups Soviet grain 1986/87 import estimate three mln tonnes to 29 mln - official




RENEWAL OF U.S./USSR GRAIN PACT SAID UNCERTAIN
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
Prospects for renewal of the five-year U.S./USSR grains agreement are
uncertain at this point, a Soviet trade official told Reuters. The
current trade imbalance between the United States and the Soviet
Union, high U.S. commodity prices, and increased world grain
production make a renewal of the supply agreement next year less
certain, Albert Melnikov, deputy trade representative of the Soviet
Union, said in an interview. The current agreement expires on Sept 30,
1988. Melnikov said that world grain markets are different than when
the first agreement was signed in 1975. Statements from both U.S. and
Soviet officials have indicate that a long term grains agreement might
not be as attractive for both sides as it once was. "We have had one
agreement. We have had a second agreement, but with the second
agreement we've had difficulties with prices," Melnikov said. "I
cannot give you any forecasts in response to the future about the
agreement.... I do not want to speculate on what will happen after
Sept 30, 1988," he said. Melnikov noted that he has seen no
indications from Soviet government officials that they would be
pushing for a renewal of the agreement. "The situation is different in
comparison to three, five or ten years ago ... We can produce more,"
he said.

MORE U.S. GRAIN CERTIFICATES NEEDED, STUDY SAYS
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
More generic grain certificates should be released onto the market in
order for the U.S. certificate program to have its full effect on
commodities, according to a study by Sparks Commodities Inc. The
Agriculture Department should make grain deficiency payments and paid
land diversion payments in a two-third certificate, one-third cash
ratio through fiscal year 1989, Carroll Brunthaver, president of
Sparks Commodities, told a House agriculture subcommittee hearing on
certificates. Thereafter, government payments should be issued in
roughly a 50-50 split between cash and certificates, Brunthaver said.
The Sparks study on certificates examined two possible scenarios
through the 1990 growing season -- a "zero certificate case," where no
certificate program was assumed, and an alternative case labeled
"adequate certificate case" in which sufficient certificates would be
released so that grain prices would not be artificially supported by
market shortages due to acreage reduction programs or government
holdings. The study showed that total grain use under the adequate
certificate scenario would exceed the zero certificate scenario by
11.2 pct. Usage would be markedly more in 1989 and 1990, when grain
usage under a certificate program was estimated to exceed the zero
certificate case by 15 to 19 pct. For the five-year period examined,
government expenditures under the adequate certificate case were 7.0
billion dlrs, or 7.5 pct less than under the zero certificate case.
The Sparks study said that 5.1 billion dlrs, or 70 pct of those
savings resulted from smaller government storage costs. The study also
estimated that government grain stocks under the adequate certificate
case would be 4.7 billion bushels below the zero certificate case at
the end of the period examined. The Sparks study said that while
certificates permit market prices to fall below loan levels, these
lower prices increase commodity usage and reduce the net costs of
certificates versus cash.

USSR CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
Gradual warming continued in most regions of Western Soviet Union in
the week ended April 4, the Joint Agricultural Weather Facility of the
U.S Agriculture and Commerce Departments said. In its International
Weather and Crop Summary, the agency said most of the region's
precipitation fell as rain. The southern snow cover boundary continued
to slowly retreat northward and eastward, it said. Moderate to deep
snow cover the northern half of the Ukraine, northern North Caucasus,
and the lower Volga, about one month later than usual, it said. The
agency said average weekly temperatures were below normal in the
southeast, near normal in the southwest and northeast, and above
normal in the northwest. Winter grains remained dormant over the
region, but warm weather promoted greening in crop areas adjacent to
the Black Sea coast, it said.

USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 USSR GRAIN IMPORTS  26.0 MLN TONNES VS 23.0 IN FEB, 29.9 IN 1985/86




CEREALS MCAS TO BE UNCHANGED NEXT WEEK
    BRUSSELS, April 1 - 
Monetary compensatory amounts, MCA's, will be unchanged for the week
starting April 6, EC Commission officials said. Cereals MCA's are plus
2.4 points for West Germany and the Netherlands, minus two points for
Denmark, minus eight points for France, minus nine for Ireland, minus
5.7 for Italy, minus 25.7 for Britain, minus 44.1 for Greece and minus
10.5 for Spain.

GAO LIKELY TO SHOW CERTS MORE COSTLY THAN CASH
    WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - 
A study on grain certificates due out shortly from the Government
Accounting Office (GAO) could show that certificates cost the
government 10 to 15 pct more than cash outlays, administration and
industry sources said. Analysis that the GAO has obtained from the
Agriculture Department and the Office of Management and Budget
suggests that certificates cost more than cash payments, a GAO
official told Reuters. GAO is preparing the certificate study at the
specific request of Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), former chairman of the
senate agriculture committee. The report, which will focus on the cost
of certificates compared to cash, is scheduled to be released in mid
March. The cost of certificates, said the GAO source, depends on the
program's impact on the USDA loan program. If GAO determines that
certificates encourage more loan entries or cause more loan
forfeitures, then the net cost of the program would go up. However, if
it is determined that certificates have caused the government grain
stockpile to decrease, the cost effect of certificates would be less.
GAO will not likely suggest whether the certificates program should be
slowed or expanded, the GAO official said. But a negative report on
certificates "will fuel the fire against certificates and weigh
heavily on at least an increase in the certificate program," an
agricultural consultant said. The OMB is said to be against any
expansion of the program, while USDA remains firmly committed to it.

LYNG SAYS TOO LATE FOR CROP DECOUPLING THIS YEAR
    WASHINGTON, March 16 - 
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said it is too late to
implement a full 0/92 acreage provision, or "decoupling," for 1987
grain crops. "I think there's a chance we'll see that legislation
(0/92) passed, (but) not for 1987 crops. It's too late," Lyng told the
National Grain and Feed Association convention here. Lyng added that
there seems some support in Congress for 0/92 and there was a good
chance a pilot 0/92 program will be passed as part of a pending
disaster bill. But he indicated that it is already too late in the
year to alter the 1987 crop program. Sign-up for spring crops closes
the end of this month. Overall, Lyng predicted very little change will
be legislated in the 1985 farm bill this year.

U.S. SENATOR UNCOMMITTED ON OFFERING 0/92 BILL
    WASHINGTON, March 16 - 
Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, ranking Republican on the U.S.
Senate Agriculture Committee, has not decided whether to introduce an
administration-backed bill to apply the so-called 0/92 provision to
1988 through 1990 grain crops, an aide to the senator said. The Reagan
administration has asked Lugar to offer the measure, the aide said.
However, a number of farm groups have told Lugar they oppose the
proposal on the grounds it would reopen the 1985 farm bill, and the
senator has decided to take a second look at the proposal, the aide
said. Last week the aide indicated Lugar was planning to offer the
0/92 measure and a bill to tighten a payment limitation loophole.

EEP SHOULD BE USED TACTICALLY, YEUTTER SAYS
    WASHINGTON, March 16 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said the Export Enhancement
Program, EEP, should be used as a "tactical tool" and not as a general
policy. Yeutter made the comment in response to a question whether the
U.S. should expand the EEP to cover grain sales to the Soviet Union.
He did not comment directly on the Soviet question, replying that any
decision would be made at the highest levels of the Reagan
administration, and "I don't want to preempt that." Yeutter told the
National Grain and Feed Association EEP should continue to be used as
a tactical tool against the European Community but not as a general
policy. He said selective EEP use has been successful in pressuring
the E.C.

U.S. GRAIN CARLOADINGS FALL IN WEEK
    WASHINGTON, April 3 - 
U.S. grain carloadings totaled 25,744 cars in the week ended March 28,
down 4.3 pct from the previous week but 41.6 pct above the
corresponding week a year ago, the Association of American Railroads
reported. Grain mill product loadings in the week totalled 10,920
cars, up 0.1 pct from the previous week and 12.7 pct above the same
week a year earlier, the association said.

USDA ASKS TIGHT INSECT RULES FOR GRAIN SHIPMENTS
    WASHINGTON, March 19 - 
The U.S. Ag
CHINA'S JANUARY GRAIN EXPORTS FALL
    PEKING, March 13 - 
China's grain exports in January totaled 386,157 tonnes, down 22.1 pct
from January 1986, customs figures show. They gave no detailed
breakdown. The official China Economic News quoted the figures as
showing tea exports rose 9.7 pct to 8,474 tonnes during the month.
Imports of wool rose 117.6 pct to 10,248 tonnes over the same period,
the figures show.

