ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN PUSHES ITS CHIPMAKERS
    TOKYO, March 11 - 
Japanese microchip makers are being strong-armed into compliance with
a U.S.-Japan pact on semiconductors halting predatory pricing and
opening Japan's market to foreign chips, industry analysts said. But
doubts remain over whether the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry (MITI), which is pressuring the firms, can successfully
battle market forces and whether the U.S. Industry is geared up to
take advantage of any breathing space, they said. U.S. Threats to
scrap the agreement signed last September have pushed MITI to try
harder to get recalcitrant Japanese chipmakers to abide by the pact,
the analysts said. "MITI has been moving hot and heavy throughout the
industry to get things done," said Bache Securities (Japan) associate
vice president Peter Wolffe. Last month, MITI told chipmakers to cut
production for the January to March period by 10 pct to help dry up
inexpensive chips that have escaped from Japan to grey markets not
subject to the pact's price controls. The ministry also asked
electronics firms to provide distributors with certificates
designating them as authorised exporters, in an effort to close
loopholes through which grey marketeers sneak chips out of Japan,
market analysts said. U.S. Trade negotiators here last week said the
pact was in jeopardy because of continued dumping in non-American
markets and little sign of increased foreign sales in Japan. But major
Japanese firms appear to have agreed to the production cuts, several
analysts said. Last week, NEC Corp said it would cut production in
line with MITI's request. "NEC has been the most aggressive in
resisting MITI's demands," said David Keller, analyst at James Capel
and Co. "Once NEC cuts production, it means they all have." Still,
pressures remain to keep production high. Japanese firms need high
output to cut unit prices for U.S. Sales that the Commerce Department
assigns them under the pact. "The best way to lower cost is to produce
more," said Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd analyst Carole Ryavec.
Preparations for a possible upturn in demand could also spur higher
production next quarter, Merrill Lynch analyst Matt Aizawa said. Grey
marketeers may also be able to outfox any new restrictions, some
industry officials said. "It's like tax avoidance schemes," said Steve
Donovan, head of MMI Japan K.K. "As soon as you close one route,
another opens." MITI's pressure has annoyed some makers, who had
earlier shrugged off MITI guidance. "It's getting to be like
communism," said one. But analysts said output cuts could help by
making it easier to increase prices as planned on April 1 and forcing
firms to stop extending market share by selling at a loss. "They're
going to have to start running their businesses like businesses,"
Bache's Wolffe said. MITI has also been conducting a highly public
campaign urging chip users to buy foreign-made chips, but U.S.
Industry officials said response has been mixed at best. "There has
been some change, but it's not across the board," said one U.S.
Spokesman. "The companies have a varying degree of urgency." The
ultimate impact of all these efforts by MITI on the troubled U.S.
Industry remains in doubt, analysts added. Pressure to cut production
of 256 kilobit DRAM (dynamic random access memory) chips could merely
speed the transition to one megabit chips, where Japan now leads,
analysts said. Whether U.S. Firms are able to stage a comeback in
memory chips, or interested in doing so, also remains unclear, they
said. Analysts are watching with interest the fate of a new U.S.
Consortium which hopes to challenge Japan by developing the most
advanced technology for microchip manufacturing. Even in the thorny
area of access, much depends on U.S. Commitment as well as on Japanese
openness, some said. "The SIA (U.S. Semiconductor Industry
Association) doesn't even have an office here," a source close to the
industry said. "You could question just how committed they are." In
addition, some industry analysts question the effectiveness of a
bilateral agreement that leaves out third country chipmakers such as
those in South Korea. "(South) Korea's gaining market share," said one
analyst. "They're the real winners from the agreement." REUTER 

BELGIAN SAYS EC WOULD REACT TO TEXTILE BILL
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
Belgian Foreign Trade Minister Herman De Croo said if Congress passed
legislation curbing world textile imports the only way the European
Community (EC) could react was to retaliate. De Croo said at a news
conference "if you limit textile imports, you will re-orient textiles
to Europe." And that he said would trigger EC taxes on U.S. goods.
Congress passed a textile bill two years ago, but it was vetoed by
President Reagan on grounds that curbing imports to protect the
domestic textile industry would trigger retaliation U.S. trading
partners. A similar bill has been introducted this year, in a Congress
with a bigger Democratic majority and with a President weakened by the
Iran scandal. De Croo, here for talks with Administration officials
and Congressmen, said if a textile bill passed, "the only way we could
react would be retaliation, and it would cause more retaliation, which
is not a good way to deal with problems." He said if a textile bill
was enacted, "we will impose taxes on a lot of American products." He
said "it would be stupid. We have to avoid that." He said Congressmen
seem upset mosty with Japan, because of its massive trade suprlus with
the United States, and not with EC nations, but EC nations will be
hurt by the diverted shipments of Asian textiles. De Croo also
criticized the way U.S. officials try to solve EC trade issues, saying
"each time we come in contact, it a conflict contact. The clouts are
coming fom the West." He said it then is a crisis atmosphere with
officials cross the Atlantic and dramatized with headlines. "This is
not the way to work in a serious way between two big powers," De Croo
said. reuter 

INDIA TRADE DEFICIT FALLS
    NEW DELHI, March 19 - 
India's trade deficit is provisionally estimated at 58.34 billion
rupees in the first 10 months of fiscal 1986/87 ending March, compared
with 70.62 billion in the year ago period, the Commerce Ministry said.
Exports rose in the latest period to 100.75 billion rupees from the a
year earlier 86.09 billion and imports to 159.09 billion from 156.71
billion in the period, the figures show. The trade deficit for all of
1986/87 is provisionally estimated at around 70 billion rupees from an
estimated record 87.47 billion in 1985/86 and actual 53.18 billion in
1984/85, Commerce Minister P. Shiv Shanker told reporters last month .
REUTER 

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - U.S. DEFICIT WITH NICs
    NEW YORK, March 19 - 
The U.S. trade deficit with Taiwan and Korea is expected to widen this
year, despite some economic and currency adjustments by the two newly
industrialized countries, economists said. "The surpluses that Taiwan
and Korea ran with the U.S. in 1986 will get bigger. This time next
year, the U.S. will be screaming at those countries about their
exports," said Steve Cerier of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. Taiwan
is currently the third biggest exporter to the U.S. after Japan and
Canada, while Korea is the seventh largest. Faced with heightened
protectionist sentiment in Congress, the Reagan administration has
been stepping up the rhetoric against Taiwan and Korea, urging those
countries to allow their currencies to appreciate and lift impediments
to free trade. The thrust has shifted to those newly industrialized
countries (NICs) amid signs the dollar's steep drop against the
currencies of Japan and most EC nations -- previously the main focus
of the U.S. drive to cut its trade gap -- is beginning to close the
competiveness gap for American goods. U.S. Treasury secretary James
Baker said recently that he expects a reduction in Japan's trade
surplus this year. But U.S. manufacturers still are losing markets on
their own doorstep to Taiwan and Korea, whose currencies have not
risen as much as the yen and the mark. As major beneficiaries of soft
oil prices and with low labor costs, Taiwanese and Korean exporters
are well-placed to take up the slack. "In 1986, the fashionable
comment in Washington was Japan-bashing. Now it's NIC-bashing," said
Robert Chandross, of Lloyds Bank PLC. Asia's four main NICs -- Hong
Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan -- accounted for almost one-
fifth of the overall 170 billion dlr U.S. merchandise trade deficit
for 1986. The U.S. trade gap with Taiwan rose to 15.7 billion dlrs in
1986 from 13.1 billion in 1985, while the bilateral trade deficit with
South Korea grew to 7.1 billion from 4.8 billion. And preliminary U.S.
data show that the growth trend is continuing. The U.S. trade
shortfall with Taiwan was 1.6 billion dlrs in January, up 24.4 pct
from a year earlier. The gap with Korea was 700 mln dlrs, up 24.8 pct
from a year ago. Lately both nations have said they will take steps to
defuse incipient trade tensions. Korea said it is choosing many of the
122 items on which the U.S. wants it to cut import tariffs in order to
deflect pressure for currency revaluation. Still, South Korean trade
minister Rha Woong Bae said last week that Korea would maintain a
trade surplus for three to five years as a way to cut its 44.5 billion
dlr foreign debt. For its part, Taiwan said in January that it will
cut tariffs on 1,700 goods sometime in the second half of 1987 and try
to diversify exports. But vice economic minister Wang Chien-Shien said
last month that he still does not expect Taiwan's trade surplus with
the U.S. will fall in 1987. The NICs have made deep inroads into
markets for textiles and electronic goods. But Korea is raising its
profile in the area of "big-ticket" manufactured goods, notably cars.
Korea expects its auto exports -- mostly for North America -- to
balloon to 675,000 units in 1987 from zero in 1985. "The NICs' exports
are almost all manufactured goods. When their exports rise it hits the
heart of the U.S. manufacturing base. It cuts directly to us and to
our customers," said Bob Wendt, manager for economic studies at
Bethlehem Steel Corp. The U.S. takes 90 pct of Korea's computer
products exports, 72 pct of its electrical appliances and 65 pct of
its telecommunications equipment. A recent study by Morgan Guaranty
Trust Co says Taiwan and South Korea are the most pressing trade issue
for the U.S. While Hong Kong and Singapore run trade surpluses with
the U.S., these are offset by their deficits with other countries. But
Taiwan and, to a lesser extent, South Korea, stand in marked contrast.
Both of these nations have moved rapidly into large bilateral surplus
with the U.S. and major overrall trade and current account surpluses,
the Morgan study says. Morgan expects Taiwan's overall trade surplus
to grow to 18.5 billion dlrs in 1987 from 15.2 billion last year, and
Korea's to increase to 6.5 billion dlrs from 3.5 billion. Concern
about the NICs is not confined to the U.S. "A lot of Korea and
Taiwan's exports to the U.S. have been at Japan's expense," said
Richard Koss at General Motors Corp. February's Paris meeting of six
major industrial powers exorted NICs to lower trade barriers and
revalue currencies. But this two-pronged approach has drawn little
response from the two nations so far and, in any case, will only work
with a sizeable lag, economists say. The U.S. has not said how much it
thinks the Taiwan's and Korea's currencies should climb. The Taiwan
dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, has risen about 15 pct
since September 1985 while the Korean won has risen about five pct.
But in real terms the Taiwan dollar has been flat against the U.S.
unit and the won has lost seven pct, economists say. "We've not seen
any lessening of competition from those countries that we can
attribute to currency changes," said Bethlehem Steel's Wendt. And so
far, U.S. pleas for Taiwan and Korea to use their hefty export
earnings to import more have had little effect. Moreover, it is
uncertain how far U.S. protectionism will get given the
administration's free-trade stance. "It's hard to see that anything
will be passed much before year-end. And then the question is, will it
have teeth?" one economist said. Reuter 

YEUTTER PLANS TRADE TRIP TO CHINA THIS SUMMER
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he plans a July trip to
China to discuss trade issues including China's admission to the
General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade. Yeutter told a congressional
hearing it was possible China could be a member of GATT before the end
of the year. "They are making major moves to becoming a full scale
member of the world economy," he told the House Appropriations
subcommittee which oversees his agency's budget. Depending on how the
negotiations go on the terms of China's GATT membership, Yeutter said
he could put the final touches on the U.S. part of the agreement
during his trip. The admission of China to GATT, which is the
multinational group of nations which negotiates international rules on
trade, would offer both potential export markets and potential
competition for U.S. industries, he said. "That has a lot of potential
as well as risks for U.S. business," Yeutter said. "I think China will
develop into a fine market for us," he added. Reuter 

SOVIET ECONOMIST SEES FEW 1987 GAINS IN U.S. TRADE
    NEW YORK, March 10 - 
There is little chance Soviet exports to the United States will rise
in 1987, but Moscow's current trade reforms should result in more
trade in manufactured goods in future, a Soviet economist said. Sergey
Frolov, chief economist at Amtorg Trading Corp, an agent for Soviet
trade organisations and industries, told a U.S.-USSR business meeting
the Soviet Union produces few items that western nations want. But
reforms, including upgrading the quality of goods and allowing joint
ventures with foreign firms, will encourage modest export gains in
future. Frolov said the Soviet Union exported 500 mln dlrs worth of
goods to the United States in 1986 and imported 1.5 billion dlrs
worth. He gave no trade forecast for 1987. But he said that even if
all obstacles were removed, total trade between the two countries
would remain between two and three billion dlrs a year. "The post-
detente embargoes have taught the USSR to limit its trading with the
U.S.," he said. REUTER 

WHITE HOUSE DISCOUNTS THREAT OF TRADE WAR
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
President Reagan has reaffirmed his opposition to protectionism and
his chief spokesman said trade sanctions imposed on Japan were
unlikely to start a trade war. "We don't want to go down that road,"
Reagan was quoted as telling Prime Minister Jacques Chirac after the
visiting French official expressed concern about the rising tide of
protectionist sentiment in the United States. Later, White House
spokesman Marlin Fitzwater defended the new sanctions against Japan
and said administration officials "do not believe this will result in
a trade war." "It is the first time that the United States has taken
an action of this type and it is significant but it is nothing to be
alarmed about," the presidential spokesman added. "We do not want
protectionism ... We do not want a trade war," he said. Fitzwater said
the president was forced to act in the Japanese microchip case because
Tokyo had failed to fulfill "an agreement to make some corrections."
Noting that there are "enormous pressures in the Congress and the
land" for the United States to take a tough stand, he said, "This was
a case where we felt we simply had to act." Fitzwater said the
decision to impose sanctions was "well considered by this
administration and not taken lightly." While the White House official
held open the possibility that Washington and Tokyo will settle their
trade dispute, he indicated a settlement probably would not come in
time to head off the sanctions. "We are always open to negotations ...
Whether it (a settlement) could occur in time to prevent this (the
sanctions) from going into effect is questionable at this point," the
spokesman said. The sanctions take effect in mid-April. REUTER 

TOKYO BIDS TO STOP CHIP ROW TURNING INTO TRADE WAR
    TOKYO, March 29 - 
Japan is seeking to prevent its computer chips dispute with the U.S.
From erupting into a full-scale trade war, government officials said.
"We hope that the dispute on this specific issue won't have an adverse
effect on our overall relationship with the United States," a Ministry
of International Trade and Industry (MITI) official said. On Friday,
Washington announced plans for as much as 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on
Japanese electronic goods for Tokyo's alleged failure to live up to a
bilateral computer chip pact. That agreement, reached last year after
heated negotiations, called on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips
in world markets and to buy more American-made semiconductors. Foreign
Ministry officials immediately tried to isolate the fall-out from the
dispute by seeking to separate it from Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone's planned trip to Washington at the end of April. While Japan
has already done about all it can to make sure the chip pact is
working, the government is studying measures it can take in other
fields to defuse American anger and ensure the trip's success, they
said. "The perception of Japan in the (U.S.) Congress is very bad,"
one official told Reuters. "We would very much like to do something to
respond to that." In an apparent effort to prevent the chip dispute
from spreading to other areas, MITI officials sought to depict the
U.S. Action as a severe warning to Japanese semiconductor makers, not
to the government. Faced with a belligerent domestic chip industry and
an angry American Congress, the Japanese government has been forced to
walk an increasingly fine line in the semiconductor dispute, trade
analysts said. They said that it was an open secret that Japan's
largest chip maker, NEC Corp, was not happy with what it viewed as the
draconian measures MITI was taking to implement the pact, included
enforced production cuts. The angry response of Japanese chip makers
yesterday to the announcement of the U.S. Tariffs highlighted the
difficulties the government faces in taking further action. "Japanese
semiconductor manufacturers have complied with the U.S./Japan
agreement," said Shoichi Saba, Chairman of the Electronic Industries
Association of Japan. He accused the U.S. Of being "irrational." He
said the U.S. Action had made the bilateral chip pact "meaningless."
Saba's comments contrasted with those of Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone, who said Tokyo wanted to solve the dispute through
consultations. Japan is expected to send a high-level official to
Washington early next month to try to convince the U.S. Not to go
ahead with the tariffs on April 17. Trade analysts say Tokyo is likely
to outline industry plans to step up purchases of U.S. Chips and to
propose a joint investigation into Washington's allegations of chip
dumping. REUTER 

JAPAN OPENS HOME MARKET TO U.S. FISH
    WASHINGTON, March 20 - 
Japan has agreed to drop barriers to American-caught herring and
pollock, opening the way for shipments that could reach 300 mln dlrs
annually, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter announced. Yeutter
said the accord was reached after extensive bilateral negotiations
that ended earlier today in Tokyo. He said the Commerce Department
estimated U.S. shipments of processed pollock products and herring
should rise to 85 mln dlrs this year and to more than 300 mln dlrs
annually in later years. There was no immediate assessment of the
value of current U.S. shipments, but officials said the pact would
lift quotas to the point that Americans would be able to ship nearly
all the pollock and herring ordered by Japanese firms. At the same
time, Yeutter said Washington was temporarily suspending a complaint
with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) that Japan was
unfairly curbing imports of the two fish. He said the complaint would
be reviewed later this year after an assessment to see if Japan lived
up to the agreement. Reuter 

TAIWAN'S SECOND QUARTER IMPORTS SEEN RISING
    TAIPEI, April 1 - 
Taiwan's imports in the second quarter of 1987 are expected to rise to
7.75 billion U.S. Dlrs from 5.82 billion a year earlier and from 6.95
billion in the first quarter of this year, the statistics department
said. A department official attributed the increase to growing
domestic investment by the private and public sectors. It is expected
to rise to 4.68 billion U.S. Dlrs from 3.79 billion a year earlier and
3.41 billion during the first quarter. Taiwan's exports in the April-
June quarter are expected to rise to 12.03 billion U.S. Dlrs from 9.63
billion a year earlier and 11.28 billion in the first quarter. The
official said Taiwan's trade surplus is expected to climb to 4.28
billion U.S. Dlrs in the second quarter of 1987 from 3.81 billion a
year earlier. It was 4.33 billion in the first quarter of this year.
Most of the surplus is expected to come from trade with the U.S.,
Taiwan's largest trading partner and importer of nearly 50 pct of
Taiwan's total exports, he said. He said he expected Taiwan's imports,
including grains, machinery and power plant equipment, from the U.S.
To rise sharply because of government efforts to balance trade with
Washington. He declined to give figures. REUTER 

GATT MEETING HEARS PLEA FOR AFRICAN DEBT RELIEF
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23, Reuter - 
Debt among African countries will continue to grow and their economies
will remain stifled unless developed countries lower their interest
rates, Nigerian Trade Minister Samaila Mamman said today. He told an
informal meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade the
widening gap between industrialized and developing countries and an
unfair international economic system were major obstacles to growth in
developing countries. "I wish to emphasize that the growth in the
volume of the external indebtedness of African countries reflects the
full effect of the deflationary monetary and trade policies of the
developed market economy countries," Mamman said. Delegates from 23
countries are attending the talks of the world trade body in the New
Zealand resort of Taupo. Reuter 

ROTTERDAM SIGNS COOPERATION AGREEMENT WITH TOKYO
    ROTTERDAM, March 18 - 
The city of Rotterdam today signed an agreement in principle to
cooperate with the AOMI Cargo Distribution Centre in Tokyo. Acting
Mayor Roel den Dunnen said that cooperation between private and public
entities in the Tokyo and Rotterdam area, and a fruitful exchange of
information have a favourable influence on the flow of goods and
services between the two countries. The AOMI Cargo Distribution
Center, which will start operating in October this year, signed a
similar agreement with Rotterdam's twinned-port of Seattle last
September. Reuter 

CHINA CALLS FOR BETTER TRADE DEAL WITH U.S.
    PEKING, March 3 - 
China called on the United States to remove curbs on its exports, to
give it favourable trading status and ease restrictions on exports of
high technology. But the U.S. Embassy replied that Chinese figures
showing 13 years of trade deficits with the U.S. Out of the last 15
are inaccurate and said Peking itself would have to persuade Congress
to change laws which limit its exports. The official International
Business newspaper today published China's demands in a editorial to
coincide with the visit of U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz. "It
is extremely important that the U.S. Market reduce its restrictions on
Chinese imports, provide the needed facilities for them and
businessmen from both sides help to expand Chinese exports," the
editorial said. "The U.S. Should quickly discard its prejudice against
favourable tariff treatment for Chinese goods and admit China into the
Generalised System of Preference (GSP). "Despite easing of curbs on
U.S. Technology exports in recent years, control of them is still
extremely strict and influences normal trade between the two
countries," it added. The paper also printed an article by China's
commercial counsellor in its Washington embassy, Chen Shibiao, who
said that "all kinds of difficulties and restrictions" were preventing
bilateral trade fulfilling its full potential. He named them as U.S.
Protectionist behaviour, curbs on technology transfer and out-of-date
trade legislation. Reuter 

U.S., JAPANESE OPEN TALKS ON SEMICONDUCTORS
    WASHINGTON, April 5 - 
U.S. and Japanese officials meet tomorrow to try to settle a dispute
over semiconductor trade and to cut short the 300 mln dlr penalty
tariffs President Reagan has ordered imposed on Japanese exports. But
U.S. officials held out little hope that any accord could be reached
before the tariffs of 100 per cent - up from about five per cent - are
to take effect on April 17. The Customs Bureau last week started to
levy a bond on the Japanese goods that Reagan ordered penalized. The
penalties would be retroactive to March 31. Reagan said on March 27
when ordering the tariffs that he hoped the Japanese would soon end
their unfair practices in semiconductor trade and that sanctions could
be lifted. Technical meetings are to be held today and tomorrow, with
meetings at a more senior level scheduled for Thursday and Friday.
Public hearings on the sanctions are set for April 13. The Japanese
aides here for the technical talks include Shigeru Muraoka, director-
general of international trade policy of the Ministry of International
Trade and Industry (MITI), and Masashi Yamamoto, deputy director-
general of the information and machinery bureau. Meeting with them
will Glen Fukushima, director of the Japan office of the U.S. Trade
Representative's Office, and Jim Gradoville, of trade representative's
office of industry and services. The two sides in the Thursday and
Friday talks will be headed by Deputy U.S. Trade Representative
Michael Smith and MITI vice minister Makoto Kuroda. Reuter 

GATT COUNCIL DEFERS DECISION ON SEMICONDUCTORS
    GENEVA, March 4 - 
The ruling GATT Council deferred a decision on whether to set up a
dispute panel on the basis of a European Community complaint against
the U.S.- Japanese agreement on exports of computer semiconductors.
David Woods, spokesman of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT), told a news briefing that the main parties would continue
bilateral talks. This was in the hope of resolving the row before the
next Council meeting on April 15. The five-year accord signed in July
1986 aims to protect the U.S. Market from dumping of low-price
Japanese microchips, officially known as semiconductors. The E.C.
Complained the accord breached GATT trade rules by allowing Tokyo to
monitor prices, allowing it to set minimum prices for Japanese chips
sold in third countries. The 12-nation Community also charged the
agreement gave U.S. Producers preferential access to the Japanese
market. Woods said many nations -- Hong Kong, Canada, Switzerland,
Singapore, Sweden, Malaysia and Nigeria -- had supported the EC
complaint during the heated Council debate. Japan's delegate, Minoru
Endo, and U.S. Ambassador Michael Samuels replied in the debate that
the E.C. Charges were unfounded, but they were willing to continue
bilateral talks. Reuter 

NAKASONE SOUNDS CONCILIATORY NOTE IN CHIP DISPUTE
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone sounded a conciliatory note in
Japan's increasingly bitter row with the United States over trade in
computer microchips. "Japan wants to resolve the issue through
consultations by explaining its stance thoroughly and correcting the
points that need to be corrected," he was quoted by Kyodo News Service
as saying. While expressing regret over America's decision to impose
tariffs on imports of Japanese electrical goods, Nakasone said Tokyo
was willing to send a high-level official to Washington to help settle
the dispute. Government officials said Japan would make a formal
request next week for emergency talks and that the two sides would
probably meet the week after, just days before the April 17 deadline
set by Washington for the tariffs to take effect. Tokyo is expected to
propose a joint U.S./Japan investigation of American claims that
Japanese companies are dumping cut-price chips in Asian markets. On
Friday, Washington announced plans to put as much as 300 mln dlrs in
tariffs on imports of certain Japanese electronic goods in retaliation
for what it sees as Tokyo's failure to live up to their bilateral chip
pact. Reuter 

JAPAN CUTS CHIP SUPPLY, MAY PRODUCE SHORTAGE
    NEW YORK, April 7 - 
Japan is attempting to cut back semiconductor production to forstall
the 300 mln dlrs in U.S. tariffs on Japanese electronic goods set to
take effect April 17, industry analysts said. The move is likely to
create a sharp price rise and a possible shortage of the key computer
components in the next few weeks, the analysts said. "Prices have gone
up for memory components, the mainstay of the Japanese semiconductor
industry," analyst Drew Peck of Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette said.
But analysts said the price rises have been slight so far, and some
questioned whether Japan would be successful in forcing Japanese
companies to cut production in the long run. Others, however, were
more optimistic, saying evidence was already in hand that Japan has
cut back prodution and halted sales to the grey market, the third
country brokers that sell chips at below production costs. "We've seen
the grey market begin to dry up for D-RAMS, and it has virtually dried
up for EPROMS," said Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas Kurlack of the two
key memory chips used in computers. "Prices are inching up and lead
times on deliveries are stretching," Kurlack added. Industry analysts
said Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry, or MITI,
had requested the cut backs in production to meet the terms of last
year's semiconductor accord with the U.S. The Reagan adminsitration
recently proposed tariffs on Japanese electronic goods, alleging that
Japan had failed to live up to the accord and continued to dump the
computer components in the U.S. market. But some analysts said Japan's
attempt to mollify the U.S. was a double edged sword, and might be
read at a subtle form of trade retaliation for the tariffs proposed by
the U.S. As production in Japan is cut, these analysts argue, prices
will rise in the U.S. and few American semiconductor manufactures will
be able to take up the slack since most long ago exited the market for
memory chips. U.S. computer makers that use the chips in their
machines will then be pressured. "The Japanese are looking for ways to
reduce trade pressures from Washington, but at the same time they're
demonstating their muscle," analyst Peck said. The cut backs in
Japanese production are expected to benefit U.S. chip makers. "I think
this could be a very important factor for U.S. semiconductor
manufacturers," industry analyst Elliot Levine of Ladenburg Thalmann
Co said. But analyst Peck said, "it will take a few weeks to see
whether Japan has genuinely cut production." He said Japanese
manufactures were likely to view MITI's request unfavorably because
chip capacity was still high and production cut backs would lead to
significant write-offs in plant and equipment. Reuter 

NO CLEAR EVIDENCE TRADE GAP REVERSED - VOLCKER
    LOS ANGELES, March 12 - 
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said current data does not
give a clear sign that the deterioration in the U.S. trade balance has
yet been reversed. "The data we have in hand do not provide clearcut
evidence that the deterioration in the trade balance has yet been
reversed," Volcker said in remarks prepared for delivery to a luncheon
for community leaders here. However, Volcker said there are
encouraging signs, particularly the rising volume of exports over the
past year, achieved despite relatively slow growth abroad. Volcker
warned it is not sustainable from an economic perspective to pile up
foreign debt while failing to make the investment needed to generate
growth and earn the money to service the debt. He said the process of
restoring external balance to the U.S. economy requires dealing with
the budget deficit. He said needed economic adjustment will require a
relative shift of financial and real resources into internationally
competitive industry. "More of our growth will need to be reflected in
net exports and business investment and less in consumption," Volcker
said. Reuter 

YEUTTER SAYS U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DIFFICULTIES REMAIN
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he was unsure whether
some of the trade issues straining U.S.-Japanese relations would be
resolved before the two countries open trade talks in late April. "We
are having high level discussions on them (the issues) within the
United States...The relationship on some of those is very strained
between us (Japan) at the moment and we need to relieve those strains
at the earliest possible date," he said. "I am not sure we can wait
until late April," he added. Yeutter is in New Zealand for a two-day
informal meeting of trade ministers who are reviewing the Uruguay
round of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT). He said he
will meet the Japanese delegation over the next few days but declined
to discuss methods of relieving the strain between the two countries.
Yeutter said earlier the three most contentious trade issues were
semiconductors, Japanese government unwillingness to allow public
entities to buy U.S. Super-computers and the barring of U.S. Firms
from the eight billion U.S. Dlr Kansai airport project near Osaka. The
Japanese delegation to the GATT talks said in a statement yesterday
they are making major efforts to dismantle trade barriers in their
country. "I am convinced that they are attempting to move their
policies in the right direction. The question is how far and how
fast," Yeutter said. REUTER 

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN PUSHES ITS CHIPMAKERS
    TOKYO, March 11 - 
Japanese microchip makers are being strong-armed into compliance with
a U.S.-Japan pact on semiconductors halting predatory pricing and
opening Japan's market to foreign chips, industry analysts said. But
doubts remain over whether the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry (MITI), which is pressuring the firms, can successfully
battle market forces and whether the U.S. Industry is geared up to
take advantage of any breathing space, they said. U.S. Threats to
scrap the agreement signed last September have pushed MITI to try
harder to get recalcitrant Japanese chipmakers to abide by the pact,
the analysts said. "MITI has been moving hot and heavy throughout the
industry to get things done," said Bache Securities (Japan) associate
vice president Peter Wolffe. Last month, MITI told chipmakers to cut
production for the January to March period by 10 pct to help dry up
inexpensive chips that have escaped from Japan to grey markets not
subject to the pact's price controls. The ministry also asked
electronics firms to provide distributors with certificates
designating them as authorised exporters, in an effort to close
loopholes through which grey marketeers sneak chips out of Japan,
market analysts said. U.S. Trade negotiators here last week said the
pact was in jeopardy because of continued dumping in non-American
markets and little sign of increased foreign sales in Japan. But major
Japanese firms appear to have agreed to the production cuts, several
analysts said. Last week, NEC Corp said it would cut production in
line with MITI's request. "NEC has been the most aggressive in
resisting MITI's demands," said David Keller, analyst at James Capel
and Co. "Once NEC cuts production, it means they all have." Still,
pressures remain to keep production high. Japanese firms need high
output to cut unit prices for U.S. Sales that the Commerce Department
assigns them under the pact. "The best way to lower cost is to produce
more," said Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd analyst Carole Ryavec.
Preparations for a possible upturn in demand could also spur higher
production next quarter, Merrill Lynch analyst Matt Aizawa said. Grey
marketeers may also be able to outfox any new restrictions, some
industry officials said. "It's like tax avoidance schemes," said Steve
Donovan, head of MMI Japan K.K. "As soon as you close one route,
another opens." MITI's pressure has annoyed some makers, who had
earlier shrugged off MITI guidance. "It's getting to be like
communism," said one. But analysts said output cuts could help by
making it easier to increase prices as planned on April 1 and forcing
firms to stop extending market share by selling at a loss. "They're
going to have to start running their businesses like businesses,"
Bache's Wolffe said. MITI has also been conducting a highly public
campaign urging chip users to buy foreign-made chips, but U.S.
Industry officials said response has been mixed at best. "There has
been some change, but it's not across the board," said one U.S.
Spokesman. "The companies have a varying degree of urgency." The
ultimate impact of all these efforts by MITI on the troubled U.S.
Industry remains in doubt, analysts added. Pressure to cut production
of 256 kilobit DRAM (dynamic random access memory) chips could merely
speed the transition to one megabit chips, where Japan now leads,
analysts said. Whether U.S. Firms are able to stage a comeback in
memory chips, or interested in doing so, also remains unclear, they
said. Analysts are watching with interest the fate of a new U.S.
Consortium which hopes to challenge Japan by developing the most
advanced technology for microchip manufacturing. Even in the thorny
area of access, much depends on U.S. Commitment as well as on Japanese
openness, some said. "The SIA (U.S. Semiconductor Industry
Association) doesn't even have an office here," a source close to the
industry said. "You could question just how committed they are." In
addition, some industry analysts question the effectiveness of a
bilateral agreement that leaves out third country chipmakers such as
those in South Korea. "(South) Korea's gaining market share," said one
analyst. "They're the real winners from the agreement." REUTER 

BELGIAN SAYS EC WOULD REACT TO TEXTILE BILL
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
Belgian Foreign Trade Minister Herman De Croo said if Congress passed
legislation curbing world textile imports the only way the European
Community (EC) could react was to retaliate. De Croo said at a news
conference "if you limit textile imports, you will re-orient textiles
to Europe." And that he said would trigger EC taxes on U.S. goods.
Congress passed a textile bill two years ago, but it was vetoed by
President Reagan on grounds that curbing imports to protect the
domestic textile industry would trigger retaliation U.S. trading
partners. A similar bill has been introducted this year, in a Congress
with a bigger Democratic majority and with a President weakened by the
Iran scandal. De Croo, here for talks with Administration officials
and Congressmen, said if a textile bill passed, "the only way we could
react would be retaliation, and it would cause more retaliation, which
is not a good way to deal with problems." He said if a textile bill
was enacted, "we will impose taxes on a lot of American products." He
said "it would be stupid. We have to avoid that." He said Congressmen
seem upset mosty with Japan, because of its massive trade suprlus with
the United States, and not with EC nations, but EC nations will be
hurt by the diverted shipments of Asian textiles. De Croo also
criticized the way U.S. officials try to solve EC trade issues, saying
"each time we come in contact, it a conflict contact. The clouts are
coming fom the West." He said it then is a crisis atmosphere with
officials cross the Atlantic and dramatized with headlines. "This is
not the way to work in a serious way between two big powers," De Croo
said. reuter 

INDIA TRADE DEFICIT FALLS
    NEW DELHI, March 19 - 
India's trade deficit is provisionally estimated at 58.34 billion
rupees in the first 10 months of fiscal 1986/87 ending March, compared
with 70.62 billion in the year ago period, the Commerce Ministry said.
Exports rose in the latest period to 100.75 billion rupees from the a
year earlier 86.09 billion and imports to 159.09 billion from 156.71
billion in the period, the figures show. The trade deficit for all of
1986/87 is provisionally estimated at around 70 billion rupees from an
estimated record 87.47 billion in 1985/86 and actual 53.18 billion in
1984/85, Commerce Minister P. Shiv Shanker told reporters last month .
REUTER 

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - U.S. DEFICIT WITH NICs
    NEW YORK, March 19 - 
The U.S. trade deficit with Taiwan and Korea is expected to widen this
year, despite some economic and currency adjustments by the two newly
industrialized countries, economists said. "The surpluses that Taiwan
and Korea ran with the U.S. in 1986 will get bigger. This time next
year, the U.S. will be screaming at those countries about their
exports," said Steve Cerier of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. Taiwan
is currently the third biggest exporter to the U.S. after Japan and
Canada, while Korea is the seventh largest. Faced with heightened
protectionist sentiment in Congress, the Reagan administration has
been stepping up the rhetoric against Taiwan and Korea, urging those
countries to allow their currencies to appreciate and lift impediments
to free trade. The thrust has shifted to those newly industrialized
countries (NICs) amid signs the dollar's steep drop against the
currencies of Japan and most EC nations -- previously the main focus
of the U.S. drive to cut its trade gap -- is beginning to close the
competiveness gap for American goods. U.S. Treasury secretary James
Baker said recently that he expects a reduction in Japan's trade
surplus this year. But U.S. manufacturers still are losing markets on
their own doorstep to Taiwan and Korea, whose currencies have not
risen as much as the yen and the mark. As major beneficiaries of soft
oil prices and with low labor costs, Taiwanese and Korean exporters
are well-placed to take up the slack. "In 1986, the fashionable
comment in Washington was Japan-bashing. Now it's NIC-bashing," said
Robert Chandross, of Lloyds Bank PLC. Asia's four main NICs -- Hong
Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan -- accounted for almost one-
fifth of the overall 170 billion dlr U.S. merchandise trade deficit
for 1986. The U.S. trade gap with Taiwan rose to 15.7 billion dlrs in
1986 from 13.1 billion in 1985, while the bilateral trade deficit with
South Korea grew to 7.1 billion from 4.8 billion. And preliminary U.S.
data show that the growth trend is continuing. The U.S. trade
shortfall with Taiwan was 1.6 billion dlrs in January, up 24.4 pct
from a year earlier. The gap with Korea was 700 mln dlrs, up 24.8 pct
from a year ago. Lately both nations have said they will take steps to
defuse incipient trade tensions. Korea said it is choosing many of the
122 items on which the U.S. wants it to cut import tariffs in order to
deflect pressure for currency revaluation. Still, South Korean trade
minister Rha Woong Bae said last week that Korea would maintain a
trade surplus for three to five years as a way to cut its 44.5 billion
dlr foreign debt. For its part, Taiwan said in January that it will
cut tariffs on 1,700 goods sometime in the second half of 1987 and try
to diversify exports. But vice economic minister Wang Chien-Shien said
last month that he still does not expect Taiwan's trade surplus with
the U.S. will fall in 1987. The NICs have made deep inroads into
markets for textiles and electronic goods. But Korea is raising its
profile in the area of "big-ticket" manufactured goods, notably cars.
Korea expects its auto exports -- mostly for North America -- to
balloon to 675,000 units in 1987 from zero in 1985. "The NICs' exports
are almost all manufactured goods. When their exports rise it hits the
heart of the U.S. manufacturing base. It cuts directly to us and to
our customers," said Bob Wendt, manager for economic studies at
Bethlehem Steel Corp. The U.S. takes 90 pct of Korea's computer
products exports, 72 pct of its electrical appliances and 65 pct of
its telecommunications equipment. A recent study by Morgan Guaranty
Trust Co says Taiwan and South Korea are the most pressing trade issue
for the U.S. While Hong Kong and Singapore run trade surpluses with
the U.S., these are offset by their deficits with other countries. But
Taiwan and, to a lesser extent, South Korea, stand in marked contrast.
Both of these nations have moved rapidly into large bilateral surplus
with the U.S. and major overrall trade and current account surpluses,
the Morgan study says. Morgan expects Taiwan's overall trade surplus
to grow to 18.5 billion dlrs in 1987 from 15.2 billion last year, and
Korea's to increase to 6.5 billion dlrs from 3.5 billion. Concern
about the NICs is not confined to the U.S. "A lot of Korea and
Taiwan's exports to the U.S. have been at Japan's expense," said
Richard Koss at General Motors Corp. February's Paris meeting of six
major industrial powers exorted NICs to lower trade barriers and
revalue currencies. But this two-pronged approach has drawn little
response from the two nations so far and, in any case, will only work
with a sizeable lag, economists say. The U.S. has not said how much it
thinks the Taiwan's and Korea's currencies should climb. The Taiwan
dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, has risen about 15 pct
since September 1985 while the Korean won has risen about five pct.
But in real terms the Taiwan dollar has been flat against the U.S.
unit and the won has lost seven pct, economists say. "We've not seen
any lessening of competition from those countries that we can
attribute to currency changes," said Bethlehem Steel's Wendt. And so
far, U.S. pleas for Taiwan and Korea to use their hefty export
earnings to import more have had little effect. Moreover, it is
uncertain how far U.S. protectionism will get given the
administration's free-trade stance. "It's hard to see that anything
will be passed much before year-end. And then the question is, will it
have teeth?" one economist said. Reuter 

YEUTTER PLANS TRADE TRIP TO CHINA THIS SUMMER
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he plans a July trip to
China to discuss trade issues including China's admission to the
General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade. Yeutter told a congressional
hearing it was possible China could be a member of GATT before the end
of the year. "They are making major moves to becoming a full scale
member of the world economy," he told the House Appropriations
subcommittee which oversees his agency's budget. Depending on how the
negotiations go on the terms of China's GATT membership, Yeutter said
he could put the final touches on the U.S. part of the agreement
during his trip. The admission of China to GATT, which is the
multinational group of nations which negotiates international rules on
trade, would offer both potential export markets and potential
competition for U.S. industries, he said. "That has a lot of potential
as well as risks for U.S. business," Yeutter said. "I think China will
develop into a fine market for us," he added. Reuter 

SOVIET ECONOMIST SEES FEW 1987 GAINS IN U.S. TRADE
    NEW YORK, March 10 - 
There is little chance Soviet exports to the United States will rise
in 1987, but Moscow's current trade reforms should result in more
trade in manufactured goods in future, a Soviet economist said. Sergey
Frolov, chief economist at Amtorg Trading Corp, an agent for Soviet
trade organisations and industries, told a U.S.-USSR business meeting
the Soviet Union produces few items that western nations want. But
reforms, including upgrading the quality of goods and allowing joint
ventures with foreign firms, will encourage modest export gains in
future. Frolov said the Soviet Union exported 500 mln dlrs worth of
goods to the United States in 1986 and imported 1.5 billion dlrs
worth. He gave no trade forecast for 1987. But he said that even if
all obstacles were removed, total trade between the two countries
would remain between two and three billion dlrs a year. "The post-
detente embargoes have taught the USSR to limit its trading with the
U.S.," he said. REUTER 

WHITE HOUSE DISCOUNTS THREAT OF TRADE WAR
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
President Reagan has reaffirmed his opposition to protectionism and
his chief spokesman said trade sanctions imposed on Japan were
unlikely to start a trade war. "We don't want to go down that road,"
Reagan was quoted as telling Prime Minister Jacques Chirac after the
visiting French official expressed concern about the rising tide of
protectionist sentiment in the United States. Later, White House
spokesman Marlin Fitzwater defended the new sanctions against Japan
and said administration officials "do not believe this will result in
a trade war." "It is the first time that the United States has taken
an action of this type and it is significant but it is nothing to be
alarmed about," the presidential spokesman added. "We do not want
protectionism ... We do not want a trade war," he said. Fitzwater said
the president was forced to act in the Japanese microchip case because
Tokyo had failed to fulfill "an agreement to make some corrections."
Noting that there are "enormous pressures in the Congress and the
land" for the United States to take a tough stand, he said, "This was
a case where we felt we simply had to act." Fitzwater said the
decision to impose sanctions was "well considered by this
administration and not taken lightly." While the White House official
held open the possibility that Washington and Tokyo will settle their
trade dispute, he indicated a settlement probably would not come in
time to head off the sanctions. "We are always open to negotations ...
Whether it (a settlement) could occur in time to prevent this (the
sanctions) from going into effect is questionable at this point," the
spokesman said. The sanctions take effect in mid-April. REUTER 

TOKYO BIDS TO STOP CHIP ROW TURNING INTO TRADE WAR
    TOKYO, March 29 - 
Japan is seeking to prevent its computer chips dispute with the U.S.
From erupting into a full-scale trade war, government officials said.
"We hope that the dispute on this specific issue won't have an adverse
effect on our overall relationship with the United States," a Ministry
of International Trade and Industry (MITI) official said. On Friday,
Washington announced plans for as much as 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on
Japanese electronic goods for Tokyo's alleged failure to live up to a
bilateral computer chip pact. That agreement, reached last year after
heated negotiations, called on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips
in world markets and to buy more American-made semiconductors. Foreign
Ministry officials immediately tried to isolate the fall-out from the
dispute by seeking to separate it from Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone's planned trip to Washington at the end of April. While Japan
has already done about all it can to make sure the chip pact is
working, the government is studying measures it can take in other
fields to defuse American anger and ensure the trip's success, they
said. "The perception of Japan in the (U.S.) Congress is very bad,"
one official told Reuters. "We would very much like to do something to
respond to that." In an apparent effort to prevent the chip dispute
from spreading to other areas, MITI officials sought to depict the
U.S. Action as a severe warning to Japanese semiconductor makers, not
to the government. Faced with a belligerent domestic chip industry and
an angry American Congress, the Japanese government has been forced to
walk an increasingly fine line in the semiconductor dispute, trade
analysts said. They said that it was an open secret that Japan's
largest chip maker, NEC Corp, was not happy with what it viewed as the
draconian measures MITI was taking to implement the pact, included
enforced production cuts. The angry response of Japanese chip makers
yesterday to the announcement of the U.S. Tariffs highlighted the
difficulties the government faces in taking further action. "Japanese
semiconductor manufacturers have complied with the U.S./Japan
agreement," said Shoichi Saba, Chairman of the Electronic Industries
Association of Japan. He accused the U.S. Of being "irrational." He
said the U.S. Action had made the bilateral chip pact "meaningless."
Saba's comments contrasted with those of Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone, who said Tokyo wanted to solve the dispute through
consultations. Japan is expected to send a high-level official to
Washington early next month to try to convince the U.S. Not to go
ahead with the tariffs on April 17. Trade analysts say Tokyo is likely
to outline industry plans to step up purchases of U.S. Chips and to
propose a joint investigation into Washington's allegations of chip
dumping. REUTER 

JAPAN OPENS HOME MARKET TO U.S. FISH
    WASHINGTON, March 20 - 
Japan has agreed to drop barriers to American-caught herring and
pollock, opening the way for shipments that could reach 300 mln dlrs
annually, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter announced. Yeutter
said the accord was reached after extensive bilateral negotiations
that ended earlier today in Tokyo. He said the Commerce Department
estimated U.S. shipments of processed pollock products and herring
should rise to 85 mln dlrs this year and to more than 300 mln dlrs
annually in later years. There was no immediate assessment of the
value of current U.S. shipments, but officials said the pact would
lift quotas to the point that Americans would be able to ship nearly
all the pollock and herring ordered by Japanese firms. At the same
time, Yeutter said Washington was temporarily suspending a complaint
with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) that Japan was
unfairly curbing imports of the two fish. He said the complaint would
be reviewed later this year after an assessment to see if Japan lived
up to the agreement. Reuter 

TAIWAN'S SECOND QUARTER IMPORTS SEEN RISING
    TAIPEI, April 1 - 
Taiwan's imports in the second quarter of 1987 are expected to rise to
7.75 billion U.S. Dlrs from 5.82 billion a year earlier and from 6.95
billion in the first quarter of this year, the statistics department
said. A department official attributed the increase to growing
domestic investment by the private and public sectors. It is expected
to rise to 4.68 billion U.S. Dlrs from 3.79 billion a year earlier and
3.41 billion during the first quarter. Taiwan's exports in the April-
June quarter are expected to rise to 12.03 billion U.S. Dlrs from 9.63
billion a year earlier and 11.28 billion in the first quarter. The
official said Taiwan's trade surplus is expected to climb to 4.28
billion U.S. Dlrs in the second quarter of 1987 from 3.81 billion a
year earlier. It was 4.33 billion in the first quarter of this year.
Most of the surplus is expected to come from trade with the U.S.,
Taiwan's largest trading partner and importer of nearly 50 pct of
Taiwan's total exports, he said. He said he expected Taiwan's imports,
including grains, machinery and power plant equipment, from the U.S.
To rise sharply because of government efforts to balance trade with
Washington. He declined to give figures. REUTER 

GATT MEETING HEARS PLEA FOR AFRICAN DEBT RELIEF
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23, Reuter - 
Debt among African countries will continue to grow and their economies
will remain stifled unless developed countries lower their interest
rates, Nigerian Trade Minister Samaila Mamman said today. He told an
informal meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade the
widening gap between industrialized and developing countries and an
unfair international economic system were major obstacles to growth in
developing countries. "I wish to emphasize that the growth in the
volume of the external indebtedness of African countries reflects the
full effect of the deflationary monetary and trade policies of the
developed market economy countries," Mamman said. Delegates from 23
countries are attending the talks of the world trade body in the New
Zealand resort of Taupo. Reuter 

ROTTERDAM SIGNS COOPERATION AGREEMENT WITH TOKYO
    ROTTERDAM, March 18 - 
The city of Rotterdam today signed an agreement in principle to
cooperate with the AOMI Cargo Distribution Centre in Tokyo. Acting
Mayor Roel den Dunnen said that cooperation between private and public
entities in the Tokyo and Rotterdam area, and a fruitful exchange of
information have a favourable influence on the flow of goods and
services between the two countries. The AOMI Cargo Distribution
Center, which will start operating in October this year, signed a
similar agreement with Rotterdam's twinned-port of Seattle last
September. Reuter 

CHINA CALLS FOR BETTER TRADE DEAL WITH U.S.
    PEKING, March 3 - 
China called on the United States to remove curbs on its exports, to
give it favourable trading status and ease restrictions on exports of
high technology. But the U.S. Embassy replied that Chinese figures
showing 13 years of trade deficits with the U.S. Out of the last 15
are inaccurate and said Peking itself would have to persuade Congress
to change laws which limit its exports. The official International
Business newspaper today published China's demands in a editorial to
coincide with the visit of U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz. "It
is extremely important that the U.S. Market reduce its restrictions on
Chinese imports, provide the needed facilities for them and
businessmen from both sides help to expand Chinese exports," the
editorial said. "The U.S. Should quickly discard its prejudice against
favourable tariff treatment for Chinese goods and admit China into the
Generalised System of Preference (GSP). "Despite easing of curbs on
U.S. Technology exports in recent years, control of them is still
extremely strict and influences normal trade between the two
countries," it added. The paper also printed an article by China's
commercial counsellor in its Washington embassy, Chen Shibiao, who
said that "all kinds of difficulties and restrictions" were preventing
bilateral trade fulfilling its full potential. He named them as U.S.
Protectionist behaviour, curbs on technology transfer and out-of-date
trade legislation. Reuter 

U.S., JAPANESE OPEN TALKS ON SEMICONDUCTORS
    WASHINGTON, April 5 - 
U.S. and Japanese officials meet tomorrow to try to settle a dispute
over semiconductor trade and to cut short the 300 mln dlr penalty
tariffs President Reagan has ordered imposed on Japanese exports. But
U.S. officials held out little hope that any accord could be reached
before the tariffs of 100 per cent - up from about five per cent - are
to take effect on April 17. The Customs Bureau last week started to
levy a bond on the Japanese goods that Reagan ordered penalized. The
penalties would be retroactive to March 31. Reagan said on March 27
when ordering the tariffs that he hoped the Japanese would soon end
their unfair practices in semiconductor trade and that sanctions could
be lifted. Technical meetings are to be held today and tomorrow, with
meetings at a more senior level scheduled for Thursday and Friday.
Public hearings on the sanctions are set for April 13. The Japanese
aides here for the technical talks include Shigeru Muraoka, director-
general of international trade policy of the Ministry of International
Trade and Industry (MITI), and Masashi Yamamoto, deputy director-
general of the information and machinery bureau. Meeting with them
will Glen Fukushima, director of the Japan office of the U.S. Trade
Representative's Office, and Jim Gradoville, of trade representative's
office of industry and services. The two sides in the Thursday and
Friday talks will be headed by Deputy U.S. Trade Representative
Michael Smith and MITI vice minister Makoto Kuroda. Reuter 

GATT COUNCIL DEFERS DECISION ON SEMICONDUCTORS
    GENEVA, March 4 - 
The ruling GATT Council deferred a decision on whether to set up a
dispute panel on the basis of a European Community complaint against
the U.S.- Japanese agreement on exports of computer semiconductors.
David Woods, spokesman of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT), told a news briefing that the main parties would continue
bilateral talks. This was in the hope of resolving the row before the
next Council meeting on April 15. The five-year accord signed in July
1986 aims to protect the U.S. Market from dumping of low-price
Japanese microchips, officially known as semiconductors. The E.C.
Complained the accord breached GATT trade rules by allowing Tokyo to
monitor prices, allowing it to set minimum prices for Japanese chips
sold in third countries. The 12-nation Community also charged the
agreement gave U.S. Producers preferential access to the Japanese
market. Woods said many nations -- Hong Kong, Canada, Switzerland,
Singapore, Sweden, Malaysia and Nigeria -- had supported the EC
complaint during the heated Council debate. Japan's delegate, Minoru
Endo, and U.S. Ambassador Michael Samuels replied in the debate that
the E.C. Charges were unfounded, but they were willing to continue
bilateral talks. Reuter 

NAKASONE SOUNDS CONCILIATORY NOTE IN CHIP DISPUTE
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone sounded a conciliatory note in
Japan's increasingly bitter row with the United States over trade in
computer microchips. "Japan wants to resolve the issue through
consultations by explaining its stance thoroughly and correcting the
points that need to be corrected," he was quoted by Kyodo News Service
as saying. While expressing regret over America's decision to impose
tariffs on imports of Japanese electrical goods, Nakasone said Tokyo
was willing to send a high-level official to Washington to help settle
the dispute. Government officials said Japan would make a formal
request next week for emergency talks and that the two sides would
probably meet the week after, just days before the April 17 deadline
set by Washington for the tariffs to take effect. Tokyo is expected to
propose a joint U.S./Japan investigation of American claims that
Japanese companies are dumping cut-price chips in Asian markets. On
Friday, Washington announced plans to put as much as 300 mln dlrs in
tariffs on imports of certain Japanese electronic goods in retaliation
for what it sees as Tokyo's failure to live up to their bilateral chip
pact. Reuter 

JAPAN CUTS CHIP SUPPLY, MAY PRODUCE SHORTAGE
    NEW YORK, April 7 - 
Japan is attempting to cut back semiconductor production to forstall
the 300 mln dlrs in U.S. tariffs on Japanese electronic goods set to
take effect April 17, industry analysts said. The move is likely to
create a sharp price rise and a possible shortage of the key computer
components in the next few weeks, the analysts said. "Prices have gone
up for memory components, the mainstay of the Japanese semiconductor
industry," analyst Drew Peck of Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette said.
But analysts said the price rises have been slight so far, and some
questioned whether Japan would be successful in forcing Japanese
companies to cut production in the long run. Others, however, were
more optimistic, saying evidence was already in hand that Japan has
cut back prodution and halted sales to the grey market, the third
country brokers that sell chips at below production costs. "We've seen
the grey market begin to dry up for D-RAMS, and it has virtually dried
up for EPROMS," said Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas Kurlack of the two
key memory chips used in computers. "Prices are inching up and lead
times on deliveries are stretching," Kurlack added. Industry analysts
said Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry, or MITI,
had requested the cut backs in production to meet the terms of last
year's semiconductor accord with the U.S. The Reagan adminsitration
recently proposed tariffs on Japanese electronic goods, alleging that
Japan had failed to live up to the accord and continued to dump the
computer components in the U.S. market. But some analysts said Japan's
attempt to mollify the U.S. was a double edged sword, and might be
read at a subtle form of trade retaliation for the tariffs proposed by
the U.S. As production in Japan is cut, these analysts argue, prices
will rise in the U.S. and few American semiconductor manufactures will
be able to take up the slack since most long ago exited the market for
memory chips. U.S. computer makers that use the chips in their
machines will then be pressured. "The Japanese are looking for ways to
reduce trade pressures from Washington, but at the same time they're
demonstating their muscle," analyst Peck said. The cut backs in
Japanese production are expected to benefit U.S. chip makers. "I think
this could be a very important factor for U.S. semiconductor
manufacturers," industry analyst Elliot Levine of Ladenburg Thalmann
Co said. But analyst Peck said, "it will take a few weeks to see
whether Japan has genuinely cut production." He said Japanese
manufactures were likely to view MITI's request unfavorably because
chip capacity was still high and production cut backs would lead to
significant write-offs in plant and equipment. Reuter 

NO CLEAR EVIDENCE TRADE GAP REVERSED - VOLCKER
    LOS ANGELES, March 12 - 
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said current data does not
give a clear sign that the deterioration in the U.S. trade balance has
yet been reversed. "The data we have in hand do not provide clearcut
evidence that the deterioration in the trade balance has yet been
reversed," Volcker said in remarks prepared for delivery to a luncheon
for community leaders here. However, Volcker said there are
encouraging signs, particularly the rising volume of exports over the
past year, achieved despite relatively slow growth abroad. Volcker
warned it is not sustainable from an economic perspective to pile up
foreign debt while failing to make the investment needed to generate
growth and earn the money to service the debt. He said the process of
restoring external balance to the U.S. economy requires dealing with
the budget deficit. He said needed economic adjustment will require a
relative shift of financial and real resources into internationally
competitive industry. "More of our growth will need to be reflected in
net exports and business investment and less in consumption," Volcker
said. Reuter 

YEUTTER SAYS U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DIFFICULTIES REMAIN
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - 
U.S. Trade Representati
JAPAN HAS LITTLE NEW TO OFFER IN MICROCHIP DISPUTE
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
The Japanese government appears to have little new to offer to settle
a dispute with the U.S. Over computer chips, trade analysts and
government officials said. The U.S. Has threatened to impose tariffs
worth up to 300 mln dlrs on Japanese electronics exports to the U.S.,
In retaliation for Japan's alleged failure to keep a pact on the
microchip trade signed last September. A Foreign Ministry official
told Reuters "Japan has done what it can, and now we must persuade the
United States to wait for those steps to take effect." The U.S.
Alleges that, in defiance of the September agreement, Japan is still
selling microchips at below cost in non-U.S. Markets and refusing to
open Japan further to U.S. Chip sales. U.S. Tariffs are due to take
effect on April 17. Analysts noted Japan's Ministry of International
Trade and Industry (MITI) has already ordered chipmakers to cut
production in order to dry up the source of cheap chips sold in third
countries at non-regulated prices. "I'm not sure MITI can do much more
than it has," said Jardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd analyst Nick
Edwards. A MITI official said the Ministry was not planning to call
for production cuts beyond those already sought, although it would
continue to press chip users to buy more foreign goods. Spokesmen for
some Japanese electronics firms said they would consider buying more
U.S. Chips. But a Matsushita Electric Industrial Co spokesman said a
rapid increase in imports was not likely. Most analysts said Japanese
exporters would be hard hit if the United States did implement the
tariffs, which would be levied on consumer electronics products rather
than on microchips themselves. "If the tariffs remain in place for any
length of time, there will be complete erosion of exports to the
United States," said Tom Murtha, analyst at James Capel and Co. "The
Japanese electronics industry is too powerful to be stopped
altogether, but recovery for the industry will be delayed for another
year," he said. Some analysts said tariffs would also harm U.S.
Industry by stepping up offshore production and by reducing demand in
Japan for semiconductors U.S. Firms are trying to sell here. "The
American approach is full of contradictions," Jardine Fleming's
Edwards said. "If they want to expand (U.S.) exports, the last thing
they want to do is hit the makers of the final products because that
hurts the final market," Edwards said. But other analysts said the
dispute reflects not just U.S. Concern over what it sees as a
strategic industry, but also frustration with Japan's vast trade
surplus. Some analysts argued that to solve the semiconductor problem
Japan may have to take action beyond that pledged in the semiconductor
pact. Carole Ryavec, an analyst at Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd, said
"The major overall issue is to stimulate the domestic economy and move
away from an export-dependent economy." REUTER 

JAPAN SAYS OECD STUDY ON SUBSIDIES STILL ONGOING
    TOKYO, March 20 - 
Japanese Agriculture Ministry officials said a study of agriculture
subsidies by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development, OECD, is still under way and will be completed sometime
next month. The officials said the study has been inaccurate so far,
and they said Japan would comment on the final results. A Reuter
report from Washington yesterday said the study has found that Japan
has the highest agriculture subsidies in the world and that dairy
farmers benefit more than any other commodity producers from
subsidies. The study has not been officially released due to
objections from some countries. Japan has withdrawn its objection and
decided to accept the release of the study, the agriculture ministry
officials said. OECD directors are expected to approve the release at
a meeting in mid-May. One agriculture ministry source said the study
so far was based on the years 1979-81. Japanese subsidies have dropped
sharply since then, partly because of tight budgetary policy, and
foreign currency factors have also changed, he said. "The study is ...
Unfair and unacceptable because it does not take account of various
differences in farming conditions in each country, such as geography,"
the source said. He said it is highly likely that the final study will
show Japan has the highest farm subsidies in the world. "This would
increase foreign pressure to open Japan's farm market further, but
this would have little impact on Japan's agriculture policy," he said,
without giving further details. A main purpose of the study is to
clarify export subsidies by major exporting nations like the United
States and the European Community, but Japan is a major importer, he
said. Reuter 

REAGAN RENEWS ANTI-PROTECTIONISM STAND, WHITE HOUSE SAYS TRADE WAR UNLIKELY




EUROPEAN COMMUNITY TO SET UP OFFICE IN PEKING
    PEKING, March 31 - 
China and the European Community (EC) signed an agreement on the
establishment of an EC office here. Chinese vice-foreign minister Zhou
Nan and the EC's external relations commissioner, Willy De Clercq,
signed the accord. EC sources said the office was likely to open in
the second half of this year. In 1986 the EC was China's third largest
trading partner, with Chinese imports from the EC worth 5.7 billion
dlrs and exports worth 2.6 billion dlrs. De Clercq told the official
China Daily that more joint ventures should be set up in China as a
way of reducing China's trade deficit with the EC. The EC's affairs in
China are currently looked after by whichever country holds the
group's six-monthly rotating presidency, now held by the Belgians
until the Danes take over in July. REUTER 

BRAZIL ANTI-INFLATION PLAN LIMPS TO ANNIVERSARY
    RIO DE JANEIRO, Feb 26 - Brazil's "Cruzado" anti- 
inflation plan, initially hailed at home and abroad as the saviour of
the economy, is limping towards its first anniversary amid soaring
prices, widespread shortages and a foreign payments crisis. Announced
last February 28 the plan froze prices, fixed the value of the new
Cruzado currency and ended widespread indexation of the economy in a
bid to halt the country's 250 pct inflation rate. But within a year
the plan has all but collapsed. "The situation now is worse than it
was. Although there was inflation, at least the economy worked," a
leading bank economist said. The crumbling of the plan has been
accompanied by a dramatic reversal in the foreign trade account. In
1984 and 1985 Brazil's annual trade surpluses had been sufficient to
cover the 12 billion dlrs needed to service its 109 billion dlr
foreign debt. For the first nine months of 1986 all seemed to be on
target for a repeat, with monthly surpluses averaging one billion
dlrs. But as exports were diverted and imports increased to avoid
further domestic shortages the trade surplus plunged to 211 mln dlrs
in October and since then has averaged under 150 mln. Reuter 

BALDRIGE SAYS U.S. TO GO AHEAD WITH JAPANESE SANCTIONS




SWEDEN SETS OCTOBER DEADLINE FOR S.AFRICA BOYCOTT
    STOCKHOLM, March 12 - 
Sweden announced its promised program of unilateral economic sanctions
against South Africa and gave firms an October deadline to cut trading
links. Foreign Trade Minister Anita Gradin said a trade boycott of
South Africa and neighbouring Namibia would take effect from July 1,
followed by a three-month period of grace to give companies time to
wind down their operations. From October 1, no direct trade would be
allowed in either direction, with certain exceptions covering medical
supplies and printed matter, Gradin told a news conference. She said
exceptions would also be granted in cases where a Swedish trade
boycott would benefit South African firms and disadvantage South
Africa's black-ruled neighbours, the front-line states. Gradin
cautioned that legislation upon which the boycott would be based was
not impossible to get round. She said a parliamentary committee would
investigate ways of closing some of the bigger loopholes, including
indirect trade with South Africa via Swedish subsidiaries in third
countries. REUTER 

BALDRIGE SEES U.S. TRADE GAP DROPPING SOON
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said the U.S. trade deficit should
start to decline soon, possibly in the figures for February or March.
"We could see the trade deficit start down in February or March,"
Baldrige said in an appearance before the Senate Governmental Affairs
Committee. He predicted the trade deficit, which was 170 billion dlrs
in 1986, would decline by 30 to 40 billion dlrs in 1987 and in 1988.
Baldrige said he was making his prediction without having seen the
February trade figures, but he said that the volume of imports has
dropped beginning with the fourth quarter of 1986 and will continue to
drop in this quarter. The eventual turnaround in the monthly trade
figures will reflect the impact of the decline in the dollar, Baldrige
said. Ealier, Treasury Secretary James Baker told the committee that
the trade deficit had levelled off, but Baldrige said he was more
optimistic, adding, "I think we turned the corner in February." Reuter


SWEDISH TRADE SURPLUS RISES IN FEBRUARY
    STOCKHOLM, March 14 - 
Sweden's trade surplus rose to 3.6 billion crowns in February from 1.5
billion in January and 3.48 billion in February 1986, the Central
Bureau of Statistics said. The trade surplus for the first two months
of the year rose to 5.1 billion crowns from 4.9 billion in the
corresponding period of 1986. The report said February imports stood
at 20.1 billion crowns while exports were 23.7 billion. REUTER 

SOUTH KOREA TO MAINTAIN TRADE SURPLUS 3-5 YEARS
    WASHINGTON, March 11 - 
South Korean Trade Minister Rha Woong Bae said his nation would
maintain a trading surplus for three to five years as a way to cut its
foreign debt. He said in an interview with Reuters that after a few
years it was likely South Korea would drop barriers to foreign goods
and move toward a more balanced trade position. He said the present
trade surplus was vital if his nation was to reduce its 44.5 billion
dlr foreign debt. Rha said that 1986 was the first year South Korea
had a trade surplus - 4.5 billion dlrs, against a 1985 deficit of 900
mln dlrs. Asked if South Korea would drop its trade barriers once its
foreign debt was substantially reduced, he said "yes, I think so." Rha
made his remarks at the end of a two-week trade mission here during
which a team he led agreed to buy U.S. products valued at 1.8 billion
dlrs. About 800 mln dlrs of the purchases are in goods of the type
South Korea normally bought from Japan. Rha was to leave later today
for Ottawa for trade talks with Canadian officials and businessmen. He
said in the interview the U.S. purchases were to reduce his country's
7.1 billion dlr surplus with the United States and also to cut its 5.6
billion dlr shortfall with Japan. Rha said it was also due to a shift
in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the yen that made it
cheaper to buy U.S. goods than Japanese goods. He said South Korea
heavily relied on foreign trade and he hoped the leaders of major
trading nations could find a way to resolve the growing trend toward
protectionist legislation. Rha said "I hope the leaders can get
together to find a solution by making some mutually satisfactory
concessions." But he added "the leaders seem hesitant to make
concessions because of domestic political reasons." Speaking of his
own country, he said "We have made a lot of concessions already." He
cited regulations permitting foreign investment in industrial firms,
allowing increased foreign banking activity and cracking down on
piracy of intellectual property by strengthening protection of
copyrights and patents. Rha said South Korea had also lowered many of
its tariffs. Asked if South Korea would retaliate against U.S. goods
if Congress closed U.S. markets to its products, he said "at this
moment, we have no thought of retaliation." South Korea is a major
exporter to the United States of textiles and apparel and electronic
goods, such as television sets, video cassette records and personal
computers. Its puchases from the United States include electronic
testing equipment and grains and cotton. The trade mission's purchases
here included three Boeing passenger planes for 400 mln dlrs, four
McDonnell Douglas planes for 300 mln dlrs; and machinery worth 725 mln
dlrs. Reuter 

BANK OF JAPAN CALLS FOR LONG-TERM EFFORTS ON TRADE
    TOKYO, March 13 - 
The short-term effect of foreign exchange rate movements in correcting
international trade imbalances appears to be waning, and long-term
efforts are required to cut Japan's chronic dependence on external
demand, the Bank of Japan said in a monthly report. Japan's trade
surplus in nominal terms is likely to remain high in the near future,
the central bank said. Fundamental adjustments will be needed as long
as Japan hopes to benefit from a better international allocation of
resources and maintain the free trade system, it added. REUTER 

IMF, WORLD BANK TO MEET AMID NEW INFLATION FEARS
    WASHINGTON, April 3 - 
Amid new concerns about inflation, interest rate increases and trade
confrontations, finance ministers and central bankers meet next week
to discuss a deteriorating global debt and economic situation. The
meetings, under the auspices of the International Monetary Fund and
World Bank, come as interest rates are turning higher and the already-
weak dollar has sunk further, upsetting bond and stock markets.
Uncertainty is growing about the vitality of the global economy and
whether the heavily-indebted countries can continue to carry the
burden of their growing debt without vast new assistance. Monetary and
diplomatic sources said there are no signs any new debt initiative of
the sort that Treasury Secretary James Baker unveiled 18 months ago in
Seoul is in the works. The strategy has drawn a serious challenge from
Brazil, which suspended interest payments on 67 billion dlrs of
commercial bank debt last month. The Banks have responded by laying
the groundwork for writing down Brazilian loans. Separately, French
Prime Minister Jacques Chirac, in a visit earlier this week with
President Reagan, sounded out the administration on a plan to funnel
worldwide grain surpluses to the very poorest states. The French plan
is certain to be discussed by the ministers in detail during next
week's meetings and will undoubtedly be embraced by the developing
countries. "There's interest on the part of some countries for looking
at the support of the special problems of the very poorest countries,
because their position is so extreme," a Reagan administration
official said. He suggested Washington was open to disussing the
issue. The meetings will also assess the success of the Baker debt
initiative, which called for new funding to help debtor countries grow
out of their problems. The largest industrial countries have been
attempting to coordinate economic policy in the hope of controlling
the decline of the dollar, U.S. trade and budget deficits and other
problems. At the same time, the industrial countries see little
evidence of a strengthening of economic activity and the Fund
forecasts they will grow 2.5 pct. The United States sees 3.2 pct
growth for itself, continuing its expansion for a fifth year, and has
asked other industrial countries to stimulate their economies. These
issues directly affect the debt problem and the ability of the debtor
countries to grow out of their difficulties. In recent years, U.S.
markets have absorbed the exports of developing country, allowing them
to earn critical foreign exchange. But the United States wants to cut
its trade deficit, running at a record 169.8 billion dlrs, and is
pressing others to import more from developing countries. The
discussions, from April six to 10, will be wide-ranging, touching
everything from interest rates to the impact of development loans on
the environment, according to monetary sources. The talks will include
an examination of trade protectionist pressures in the wake of a
decision by the Reagan administration to place some 300 mln dlrs in
tariffs on microchip products from Japan, the sources said. The move
accelerated the dollar's decline as financial markets grew alarmed
that trade war was in the offing. There is concern that the action,
prompted by U.S. charges that Japan has been selling computer chip
products below fair market value and has kept its own market closed to
imports, further undermining the international trading system. At the
same time, the ministers will discuss the fundamental price weakness
in basic commodities, the export mainstay of many developing
countries. The so-called Group of Five industrial countries -- the
United States, Japan, West Germany, France and Britain -- will gather
for the first time since their February talks in Paris, where they
agreed to keep the dollar from sliding further. The Five will be
joined later by Italy and Canada for further debate on economic policy
coordination. As part of the Paris accord, surplus countries such as
Japan agreed to stimulate their economies, while America said it would
reduce its federal budget deficit. Other major issues of the meetings
include a U.S. bid to to have a larger say in approving loans of the
Inter-American Development Bank, strengthening the link between loans
and economic policy changes in debtor nations. Washington is also
pressing the World Bank to take more account of the environment when
making loan for dams and other projects. The new head of the Bank,
Barber Conable, has said this issue is being reviewed and will be part
of a reorganization plan for the Bank, now being prepared. Reuter 

TRADE FRICTION THREATENS TO TOPPLE NAKASONE
    TOKYO, March 31 - 
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone may have been dealt a fatal political
blow by the yen's renewed rapid rise and the threat of a trade war
with the United States, political analysts said. Nakasone, already
under fire over an unpopular tax reform plan, may now be forced to
resign before the June economic summit of seven industrialised nations
if local elections later next month go against candidates from his
ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), they said. "The close
relationship between Nakasone and President Reagan was an important
element of Nakasone's power base," Waseda University Political Science
Professor Mitsuru Uchida told Reuters. "So the emergence of U.S.
Criticism damages Nakasone." Even before the latest trade friction
flared, Nakasone was encountering criticism not only from opposition
parties but also within his own LDP over his proposal to levy a sales
tax. "Many factions within the LDP are distancing themselves from
Nakasone," Uchida said. "His position within the LDP itself is not so
strongly established today." Nakasone, who has been more popular with
the general public than with many LDP members, is now seeing his
public support eroded, the analysts said. The yen's rise to record
highs and the U.S. Threat on Friday to impose tariffs on Japanese
electronics goods in retaliation for Japan's alleged violation of a
microchip trade pact are now giving Nakasone's critics fresh
ammunition, the analysts said. "Apparently the special relationship
between Reagan and Nakasone hasn't worked effectively," Rei Shiratori,
director of the Institute for Political Studies in Japan, said. This
is making the Japanese people doubt Nakasone's credibility, Shiratori
told Reuters. The cumulative impact of the sales tax issue, the yen's
rise and mounting trade friction could mean serious LDP losses in the
April 11 and 26 local elections, analysts said. "If the elections go
against the LDP, Nakasone may have to resign early," Shiratori said.
But Nakasone still has a chance to soothe U.S. Tempers before or
during his week-long Washington visit from April 29, some analysts
said. However, "unless the Japanese political system can move more
quickly to give Nakasone some nice present to take to Washington on
smouldering trade issues, he will face a very hostile audience," said
Merrill Lynch Securities economist William Sterling. "If the trip is a
major disaster, it would seem to put the final nail in his coffin," he
said. Reagan's own weakened domestic position, and growing Republican
as well as Democratic anger with Japan, argue against a quick
settlement to the trade dispute, the analysts said. But a desire on
both sides to find some solution, coupled with uncertainty at home and
abroad over likely successors to Nakasone, could still lead to an
attempt to paper over the differences and aid Nakasone, they said.
"One factor against a trade war may be that Washington is not anxious
to push Nakasone into his grave," Sterling said. REUTER 

YEUTTER SEES U.S., JAPAN VERGING ON TRADE CONFLICT
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - 
The United States and Japan are on the brink of serious conflict on
trade, especially over semiconductors, Japanese unwillingness for
public bodies to buy U.S. Super-computers, and barriers to U.S. Firms
seeking to participate in the eight billion dlr Kansai airport
project, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said. He was
talking to reporters yesterday on the eve of a two-day meeting of
trade ministers which will review progress made by committees set up
after the Uruguay meeting last September launched a new round of GATT
(General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) talks. European Community
(EC) commissioner Willy de Clercq meanwhile told reporters conflict
between the world's three major trading and economic powers -- the EC,
the U.S. And Japan -- set a poor example for other members of GATT.
Australian Trade Minister John Dawkins told the reporters bilateral
retaliation at the enormous expense of the rest of the world was no
way to solve trade disputes. New Zealand trade minister Mike Moore
told his colleagues great progress had been made in preparing for the
current round of GATT negotiations which must not be sidetracked. The
ministers have said they want to maintain the momentum towards fresh
negotiations or avert serious trade conflicts. Yeutter said the
problem with international trade talks was that they tended to get
bogged down for years. "Countries don't get very serious about
negotiating until the end of the day which is, maybe, five or six
years in the future." He also said he did not consider the new U.S.
Congress as protectionist as it was 18 months ago. "That's a very
healthy development," he added."If you asked me about that a year or
18 months ago I would have said that it was terribly protectionist."
"Members of Congress, that is the contemplative members of Congress,
have begun to realise protectionism is not the answer to the 170
billion dlr trade deficit," Yeutter said. "They've also begun to
realise that you cannot legislate solutions to a 170 billion dollar
trade deficit so they are more realistic and, in my judgement, more
responsible on that issue than they were 12 or 18 months ago." He
added, "Whether that will be reflected in the legislation that
eventually emerges is another matter." REUTER 

JAPAN TO ASK CHIP MAKERS TO SLASH OUTPUT FURTHER
    TOKYO, March 19 - 
The Ministry of International Trade and Industry will ask Japanese
computer microchip makers to further slash output in the second
quarter in an effort to save its semiconductor pact with the United
States, MITI officials said. The United States has accused Japan of
reneging on the semiconductor pact by failing to stop the flow of cut-
price Japanese chips to Asian markets. Washington has threatened to
take retaliatory action after April 1. The pact, agreed last year,
calls on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips in world markets and to
increase its imports of American chips to reduce some of its huge
trade surplus. MITI, anxious to salvage the bilateral agreement, has
been pressing chip makers to limit production in the hope that will
boost domestic chip prices and reduce the incentive to export. Last
month, the ministry asked Japanese chip makers to reduce first quarter
output by 10 pct. To meet that request, they had to slash production
by 20 pct over the final six weeks of the first quarter. If that
reduced production level were maintained through to the end of June,
second quarter output would come in 10 pct below that of the first
three months of the year. MITI officials, who declined to be
identified, said the ministry has not yet decided on the extent of the
second quarter cutback. One said that Japanese chip makers are losing
ground in Asia to South Korean and U.S. Competition just as markets
there are picking up. MITI has been criticized privately by some
Japanese semiconductor makers for what they see as heavy-handed
attempts to ensure the success of the Japan/U.S. Chip pact. REUTER 

TREASURY'S BAKER SEES SMALLER TRADE DEFICIT
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury secretary James Baker predicted the U.S. trade deficit would
decline 15-20 billion dlrs this year. However, he acknowledged signs
were still lacking on such a decline. "We think we are beginning to
see changes," he told the House Appropriations Committee. "It has
begun to level off (but) we don't see it beginning to go down yet," he
told the panel. Reuter 

BROADER U.S. EEP SOUGHT BY REPUBLICAN LAWMAKERS
    WASHINGTON, MARCH 31 - 
Republican members of the House Agriculture Committee said they will
propose amendments tomorrow to a pending trade bill increasing funding
for the export enhancement program, EEP, and significantly expanding
the scope of the program. At a press conference, Republican lawmakers
said they would propose expanding EEP to include all countries
"willing to purchase additional commodities at reasonable prices." In
addition, the Congressmen said they would propose extending the life
of EEP to five years from the current three years and increasing the
EEP funding ceiling to 2.5 billion dlrs from 1.5 billion at present.
The Agriculture committee tomorrow will begin drafting amendments to
an omnibus trade bill now before the House. Responding to the
Republican plan, Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng and Trade
Representative Clayton Yeutter said they favor a flexible, targeted
use of EEP instead of an across-the-board program which they termed
too costly. The Republican Congressmen also said they will offer an
amendment to the trade bill instructing the U.S. Agriculture
Department to value the bonus commodities used for EEP at the market
value, rather than the cost of acquisition. But Lyng said USDA already
plans to change to market value accounting rather than acquisition
value, in order to avoid hitting a funding ceiling for eep of 1.5
billion dlrs. Lyng said under market value accounting only about 700
mln dlrs of EEP commodities have been used to date. Using acquisition
value, USDA officials said the value is higher. Reuter 

BRITAIN WARNS JAPAN OVER TRADE ROW
    TOKYO, April 7 - 
British corporate affairs minister Michael Howard told Japan to
resolve the row over the U.K. Firm Cable and Wireless Plc's <CAWL.L>
shareholding in a new Japanese telecommunications company or face an
abrupt deterioration in trade relations. In meetings with both the
foreign and telecommunications ministers Howard said he expressed deep
concern about the way Tokyo had handled the dispute and about the
continuing trade imbalance between the two countries. "I put it to the
(post and telecommunications) minister that I was sure he did not want
to be responsible for an abrupt deterioration in the trading relations
of our countries which would have widespread reverberations elsewhere
in the world," Howard told reporters. "He listened very carefully and
I have little doubt the message got home," he added. British
frustration over the lopsided trade balance - nearly six billion dlrs
in Japan's favour last year - has reached boiling point over the
telecommunications issue, Howard said. Howard has accused Japan of
trying to shut out Cable and Wireless from having a major role in the
international telephone market in Japan. "I want a fair crack of the
whip for Cable and Wireless as I want a fair crack of the whip for
Britain generally in trading relations," Howard said. "We simply
aren't prepared to continue to accept the imbalance which has been the
position for such a long time." Post and Telecommunications Ministry
officials were unable to comment on Howard's meeting with their
minister. But Foreign Ministry officials said Foreign Minister Tadashi
Kuranari said that British exports to Japan are increasing, but
acknowledged the continuing imbalance in trade. Kuranari said he wants
everyone in the telecommunications dispute, including Cable and
Wireless, to be satisfied. Howard told reporters that Britain was
actively considering possible retaliatory measures if it did not get
its way on the telecommunications issue. "There are measures which are
under consideration if we continue to suffer from the imbalance in our
trading relations," he added, but gave no details. He said he had
received a reassuring response from the Japanese he has spoken with.
"But of course we've had reassuring signs from the Japanese for quite
some time," he added. "What I've made plain is we expect to see
action." Howard ruled out using powers in Britain's Financial Services
bill to retaliate against unfair trade practices. Those powers, which
allow London to ban foreign financial firms like banks from Britain,
are designed to ensure U.K. Firms equal access to overseas financial
markets. REUTER 

TREASURY'S BAKER FORECASTS REDUCTION IN JAPANESE TRADE SURPLUS THIS YEAR




KOREANS TO BUY 1.8 BILLION DLRS IN U.S. GOODS
    WASHINGTON, March 9 - 
South Korean Foreign Trade Minister Rah Woon Bae said his country's
firms have agreed to buy 1.8 billion dlrs worth of U.S. goods during
his two-week buying trip to the United States. Rah said most of the
purchases represented shifts from Japanese firms to U.S. firms as part
of South Korea's effort to reduce its seven billion dlr trade surplus
with the United States. South Korea has a five billion dlr trade
deficit with Japan. Reuter 

UK MINISTER LOOKS TO EASE TENSION WITH JAPAN
    LONDON, April 3 - 
The U.K. government hopes for a breakthrough on the deadlock with
Japan over trade policies during next week's visit to Tokyo by
Corporate Affairs Minister Michael Howard, political sources said.
Howard, who leaves for Japan tomorrow, told Reuters he will try to
promote understanding on trade issues during his visit. Meanwhile,
Britain will re-examine a letter from Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone promising personal help in solving the row over a U.K. firm's
bid to win a significant role in Japan's telecommunications market,
government sources said. Tensions have risen following Britain's
decision to arm itself early with new statutory powers which it says
could be used against certain Japanese financial institutions. Britain
reacted optimistically at first to the letter from Nakasone to Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher, seeing it as a signal that he would work
towards ensuring a satisfactory outcome to the bid launched by Cable
and Wireless Plc, government officials said. But this view has since
been clouded by reports from Tokyo that Nakasone's assurances really
constituted little more than politeness in the face of British anger,
they added. Reuter 

NORWAY'S TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN FEBRUARY
    OSLO, March 16 - 
Norway's trade deficit widened in February to 957 mln crowns from 80
mln crowns in January and 492 mln crowns in February last year, the
Central Bureau of Statistics said. Exports dropped to 10.66 billion
crowns last month, compared with 11.11 billion in January and 10.85
billion in February 1986, it added. Crude oil and natural gas exports
totalled 4.56 billion crowns in February, against 5.10 billion in
January and 5.36 billion a year ago. REUTER 

VOLCKER URGES INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO KEEP TRADE MARKETS OPEN TO FOSTER GROWTH




CANADA'S CLARK SEES TRADE AS MOST URGENT PROBLEM
    SAN FRANCISCO, March 20 - 
Trade is the most urgent problem facing U.S.-Canadian relations
because of a pressing need to reach a new bilateral pact within the
coming months, Joe Clark, Canadian secretary of state for external
affairs, said. Negotiators for the two countries have been meeting for
more than a year in an effort to work out an agreement. "The most
urgent problem now is the trade question because that has to be
decided within the next 10 months," Clark told the Commonwealth Club
of California. "We have a fast track authority from your Congress for
approval or rejection of whatever the negotiators achieve." Clark said
that, as a practical matter, an initial agreement must be reached by
late September or early October. He listed environmental questions,
particularly acid rain, and defense as the second and third most
important bilateral issues facing Ottawa and Washington. On Wednesday,
President Reagan announced that he will seek 2.5 billion dlrs from
Congress to address the acid rain problem. Some interpreted the move
as a goodwill gesture in advance of his annual meeting, on April 5-6
in Ottawa, with Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. In a question-and-
answer session with the public affairs group, Clark said that the two
countries must find better mechanisms for resolving their trade
disputes. "This rash of countervailing actions, where we acted on corn
and you acted on soft wood and we both said they were quasijudicial --
the dispute resolution mechanisims in place now are not working
adequately in either of our interests," he said. Ottawa also is
seeking to change some of Washington's rules on government procurement
that penalize Canadian businesses, he said. "There are a number of
Canadian companies that, in order to secure substantial contracts in
the United States, have had to move their head offices out of our
country into your country because you have national procurement
requirements," he said. In turn, he added, the United States would
like to change some of the procurement requirements that exist at the
provincial government level in Canada. Clark declined to forecast the
outcome of the discussions. "What will come out of it remains for the
negotiators, in the first instance, to propose, and then governments
and congresses will have judge," he said. In his prepared remarks,
Clark said that the United States has tended to take Canada for
granted, although it exports to its northern neighbor more than twice
what it exports to Japan. "Yet you bought almost 10 per cent more from
Japan last year than you bought from Canada," he said. REUTER Reuter 

VOLCKER SAYS EXCHANGE RATE ADJUSTMENT ENOUGH TO NARROW U.S. TRADE DEFICIT




EC WARNS U.S. AND JAPAN ON TRADE TENSIONS
    BRUSSELS, March 17 - 
The European Community (EC) yesterday warned Japan and the United
States, its main trading partners, that friction over trade issues is
affecting the EC's relations with both countries. EC foreign ministers
issued a statement deploring Japan's continued trade imbalance and
appealed for the country to make a greater effort to open up its
markets. They also said they were disturbed by a draft bill before the
U.S. Congress that would impose permanent quotas on textile imports
and were prepared to react. The U.S. Administration has already
distanced itself from the bill. EC External Trade Commissioner Willy
De Clercq has written to his U.S. Counterpart, Trade Representative
Clayton Yeutter, outlining the EC's concerns. The statement said
ministers were very disturbed by U.S. Moves towards protectionism.
"The adoption of such measures would not fail to have a negative
effect on the process of multilateral negotiations just started, as
well as on bilateral relations," it said. Any unilateral U.S. Moves
would leave the EC no option but to react according to the laws of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, it said. In a separate
statement on Japan, the EC ministers said they "deplore the continued
aggravation of the imbalance in trade (and) expect Japan to open up
its market more." The statement said the EC would continue to insist
that Japan boost imports and stimulate domestic demand. Ministers also
called on the EC Commission to prepare a report on U.S.-Japanese trade
for July this year to enable them to take appropriate action where
necessary. One diplomat said the call for a report showed ministers
were determined not to let the Japanese question drop. "It will be
back on the table again and again," the diplomat said. De Clercq,
talking to journalists during the meeting, said, "There is a certain
nervousness, a growing impatience within the Community concerning
trade relations with Japan." But diplomats said the EC is keen to
negotiate with Tokyo to solve the problem rather than embark on a
costly and damaging trade war, and the ministers called for more
cooperation with Japan in industry and research. Reuter 

JAPAN SAYS IT TRYING TO EXPAND DOMESTIC DEMAND
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - 
Japan has assured a meeting of trade ministers it is making every
effort to expand domestic demand and restructure its economy. Japanese
trade representative Tsomu Hata told an informal General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting that, in addition to demand boosting
measures adopted last September, a comprehensive economic program will
be prepared after the 1987/88 budget is approved. Hata, speaking at
the first session of the two-day meeting, said agriculture is no
exception to the goal of restructuring the economy, but did not
elaborate. Hata said protectionist pressures in the international
economy are as strong as ever, reflecting financial deficits, payment
imbalances and serious unemployment in many countries. Despite great
potential, developing economies are still confronted by grave
difficulties, particularly debt, he added. The basis for the talks is
the GATT ministerial declaration last September in Punta del Este,
Uruguay, and the subsequent trade negotiating plan agreed in Geneva.
"It is essential that we first reaffirm here our commitment to
implementing that plan as scheduled," Hata said. Hata added it is not
constructive to speed up negotiations in some areas at the expense of
others. In order to rebuild the free trade system, it is important for
each participant to have domestic policies that will serve this end.
As part of its contribution, Japan plans in April to fundamentally
improve its generalised system of preferences for industrial and
mining products to make Japan's domestic market more open to
developing countries, he said. REUTER 

U.S. HOUSE PANEL APPROVES TRADE BILL
    WASHINGTON, March 12 - 
The U.S. House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee unanimously approved
a toned-down version of legislation designed to toughen U.S. trade
laws and wedge open foreign markets to more U.S. goods. The measure
now goes to the full House Ways and Means Committee next week, but
major changes are not expected, congressional sources said. "This
product could very well be toughening our trade policy and doing it in
a manner that opens markets without this frightening word
'protectionism'," Ways and Means chairman Dan Rostenkowski, an
Illinois Democrat said. The trade subcommittee backed away from
mandating specific retaliation against foreign countries for unfair
foreign trade practices as the House had approved in a trade bill last
year. But it held over for the full Ways and Means Committee debate on
a controversial plan by Rep. Richard Gephardt to mandate a reduction
in trade surpluses with the U.S. by countries such as Japan, South
Korea and Taiwan. Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, has not decided the
exact form of his amendment, an aide said. Last year the House
approved his idea to force an annual 10 pct trade surplus cut by those
countries. Reuter 

PERU SHORT-TERM TRADE LINES RISE TO 430 MLN DLRS
    Lima, march 18 - 
peru's short-term foreign trade credit lines have more than doubled to
430 mln dlrs under president alan garcia's 20-month administration.
Central bank general manager hector neyra told reporters that many of
the credits were for 90-day terms and could be used several times a
year. The trade credits stood at 210 million dollars when garcia took
office on july 28, 1985, and announced foreign debt payments would be
limited to 10 pct of export earnngs. Neyra told reuters that peru was
current on interest payments on short-term debt, including the trade
credit lines and on about 750 million dollars in so-called "working
capital" credits. Neyra did not specify the source of the trade credit
lines. Reuter 

JAPAN DENIES BREAKING SEMICONDUCTOR TRADE PACT
    TOKYO, March 13 - 
Japan denied breaking a pact with the U.S. On semiconductor trade but
said prices set out in the pact were too high and acknowledged
difficulties in implementing the accord. "We are faithfully abiding by
the ... Agreement but of course there are some problems," a spokesman
for the International Trade and Industry Ministry told Reuters. He
said the high semiconductor prices recommended by the agreement were
leaving Japanese manufacturers piling up stocks of unsellable
products. "We are aiming to reduce production in Japan but of course
this takes time," he said. The spokesman said some Japanese companies
were selling chips in Europe and Asia below stipulated prices, but
added: "It is only a matter of time before we solve this problem." The
eight month old pact aims to stop Japan selling large quantities of
chips at knock-down prices to the United States and other countries
and to increase U.S. Semiconductor sales in Japan. The U.S. Senate
Finance Committee this week called on President Reagan in a non-
binding resolution to retaliate against Japan for violating the
agreement. REUTER 

BALDRIGE PREDICTS END OF U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DISPUTE
    WASHINGTON, March 29 - 
The United States and Japan will soon settle their trade dispute over
semiconductors, U.S. Commerce secretary Malcolm Baldrige said on
television. Baldrige, referring to the U.S.-Japan trade agreement on
semiconductors, said: "Their government wants to live up to it. Their
industries haven't been doing it, and I think we'll have a good
settlement to spare both sides." "I think the Japanese understand full
well that they haven't lived up to this commitment," he said. He
added: "I do not think there will be a trade war at all." On Friday,
Washington announced plans to put as much as 300 mln dlrs in tariffs
on Japanese electronic goods from April 17, because of Tokyo's failure
to observe the agreement. The officials said the tariffs would be
ended as soon as Japan started adhering to the agreement. But they
said there was little chance Japan could react quickly enough to avert
the higher tariffs. Baldrige said the Reagan administration hoped the
strong U.S. Action against Japan would convince Congress to tone down
protectionist trade legislation now being drafted. He denied the
action had been taken for that reason. REUTER 

NAKASONE HARD-PRESSED TO SOOTHE U.S ANGER ON TRADE
    TOKYO, March 27 - 
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone will visit Washington next month in a
bid to defuse mounting U.S. Anger over Japanese trade policies, but
Western diplomats said they believed his chances of success were slim.
Boxed in by powerful political pressure groups and widespread
opposition to his tax reform plans, Nakasone will be hard-pressed to
come up with anything new to tell U.S. President Ronald Reagan and key
U.S. Congressmen, they said. News of the week-long visit starting
April 29 coincided with news that Japan recorded a 8.14 billion dlr
trade surplus last month, more than 70 pct higher than a year earlier.
It also came one day after the Reagan Administration's Economic Policy
Council decided to take retaliatory action against Japan for its
alleged failure to live up to a joint trade agreement on computer
microchips. Nakasone wants to go armed with two separate packages -
one designed to pep up Japan's sagging economy and imports in the
short-term, the other to redirect the country in the medium term away
from its over-dependence on exports for growth. But government
officials said political infighting could rob both packages of much of
their punch and might even prevent one from seeing the light of day.
Nakasone has insisted that the government would not draw up a package
of short-term economic measures until after its 1987/88 budget passed
parliament because he feared that would amount to a tacit admission
that the budget was inadequate. But his hopes for quick passage of the
budget in time for his trip have been shattered by a parliamentary
boycott by opposition parties protesting over the sales tax plan.
Faced with the possibility that he might have to go to the U.S.
Virtually empty-handed, Nakasone today ordered his ruling Liberal
Democratic Party (LDP) to come up with its own measures. He can then
tell Reagan the LDP package will form the basis of the government's
plans, without losing face in parliament over the budget, political
analysts said. Officials working on the government's short-term
economic package said it would probably include interest rate cuts on
loans by government corporations, deregulation, measures to pass on
some of the benefits of the strong yen to consumers in the form of
lower prices, and accelerated public investment. They said a record
portion of state investment planned for the entire 1987/88 fiscal year
will take place in the first half, probably over 80 pct. Diplomats
said that was unlikely to be enough to satisfy Reagan, who is under
pressure from the Democrat-controlled U.S. Congress to take greater
action to cut the huge American trade deficit. To complement the
short-term measures, Nakasone is also likely to present Reagan with
details of Japan's longer-term economic plans. A high-ranking advisory
body headed by former Bank of Japan governor Haruo Maekawa is expected
to come up with a final report outlining concrete steps to redirect
the economy days before Nakasone is scheduled to leave for Washington.
Its recommendations are designed as a follow-up to Maekawa's report
last year on economic restructuring and are likely to cover such
potentially politically explosive areas as agricultural reform and
land policy, officials said. While wanting to make the report as
explicit and detailed as possible, they said the political realities
might force them to water down some of the committee's
recommendations. A subcommittee is considering what the Japanese
economy might look like in the medium to longer term after it
undergoes massive restructuring, officials said. The subcommittee
projects that the current account surplus will fall to less than two
pct of Japan's total output, or gross national product, around 1993 or
1995. Last year the surplus, which measures trade in goods and
services, amounted to over four pct of gnp. The subcommittee also
projects annual economic growth for Japan of nearly four pct over that
period and a very gradual appreciation of the yen, to about 130 to the
dollar by around 1993, from 150 now. REUTER 

U.S. HOUSE PANEL APPROVES TRADE BILL
    WASHINGTON, March 12 - 
The House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee unanimously approved a
toned-down version of legislation designed to toughen U.S. trade laws
and wedge open foreign markets to more U.S. goods. The measure now
goes to the full House Ways and Means Committee next week, but major
changes are not expected, congressional sources said. "This product
could very well be toughening our trade policy and doing it in a
manner that opens markets without this frightening word
'protectionism'," Ways and Means chairman Dan Rostenkowski, an
Illinois Democrat said. The trade subcommittee backed away from
mandating specific retaliation against foreign countries for unfair
foreign trade practices as the House had approved in a trade bill last
year. But it held over for the full Ways and Means Committee debate on
a controversial plan by Rep. Richard Gephardt to mandate a reduction
in trade surpluses with the U.S. by countries such as Japan, South
Korea and Taiwan. Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, has not decided the
exact form of his amendment, an aide said. Last year the House
approved his idea to force an annual ten pct trade surplus cut by
those countries. The trade bill will be wrapped in with legislation
from other committees dealing with relaxation of export controls,
incentives for research, expanded worker training and education and
other efforts to increase U.S. competitiveness. The comprehensive
trade bill is to be considered by the full House in late April and
then will be considered by Senate committees. It requires President
Reagan to retaliate against foreign unfair trade practices but do not
mandate quotas or tariffs and allow an exemption if U.S. economic
security would be harmed by U.S. actions against other countries. The
bill would make it easier for U.S. industries to win relief from
surges of imports of competitive products. It extends until January
1993, the administration's authority to negotiate trade agreements as
part of the new round of multilateral talks under the General
Agreements on Tariffs and Trade. And, it includes provisions to
tighten trade rules on copyrights, patents and telecommunications
goods. Reuter 

SWISS FEBRUARY TRADE DEFICIT 629.7 MLN FRANCS
    BERNE, March 13 - 
Switzerland had a trade deficit of 629.7 mln Swiss francs in February
compared with a revised 209.4 mln deficit in January and 723.2 mln
shortfall in February 1986, the Federal Customs Office said. February
imports were 6.00 billion francs against exports of 5.37 billion.
Imports rose in real terms by 5.1 pct against February 1986 while
exports rose by a real 4.6 pct, the office said. But a further
improvement in the terms of trade left the deficit smaller than last
year. Last February's figure had also been hit by the import of two
passenger aircraft. REUTER 

SOVIET UNION SEEN WATCHING CHINA GATT APPLICATION
    PEKING, March 31 - 
China's application to join the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) is seen as a test case by the Soviet Union, which will probably
demand to follow China, a top European Community official said. Willy
de Clercq, External Relations Commissioner of the European
Communities, told a news conference that China's application would
involve long and difficult negotiations. China formally applied to
join GATT in July 1986 and in February presented a memorandum backing
its application, which De Clercq said was now being studied. Questions
would then be presented to China. "After China, other important state-
trading countries including the Soviet Union, will probably demand
accession. China's application could be considered a test case," he
said. He said the EC strongly backed China's application, but others
among GATT's 92 contracting parties took a tougher line. Among the
numerous problems of a huge centrally-run economy entering a free
trade system are tariffs and reciprocity and the expectation that
China will practice an open-trade policy without trade discrimination,
de Clercq added. De Clercq noted the different dimensions of the
Chinese economy and those of Hungary and Yugoslavia, the two current
Socialist GATT members. On China's import potential, he said a foreign
exchange shortage would force China to import less this year and next
than in the past, with an emphasis on technological equipment and
capital. During his visit, De Clercq has met top Chinese leaders and
today signed an agreement to open a European Community Commission
office in Peking. REUTER 

 French adjusted February trade deficit 400 mln francs vs January deficit 2.5 billion




NAKASONE TO VISIT WASHINGTON IN LATE APRIL
    TOKYO, March 27 - 
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone will make an official week-long visit
to the United States from April 29 and hold talks in Washington with
President Reagan, Chief Cabinet Secretary Masaharu Gotoda told
reporters. Government sources said Nakasone would try to resolve
growing bilateral trade friction and discuss the June Venice summit of
Western industrial democracies. Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari will
accompany Nakasone, ministry officials said. U.S. Industry sources in
Washington said the White House Economic Policy Council was
recommending trade sanctions against Japan for violating the two
countries' agreement on semiconductor trade. Under the pact, Japan
pledged to stop dumping microchips in the U.S. And Asia and open its
domestic market to U.S. Semiconductors. REUTER 





ENVOY ADVISES NAKASONE TO PREPARE FOR U.S. VISIT
    TOKYO, March 31 - 
The Japanese ambassador to the U.S. Suggested that Prime Minister
Yasuhiro Nakasone make efforts to present "advanced' proposals on
trade issues when he visits Washington next month. Ambassador Nobuo
Matsunaga made the recommendation at a meeting with Nakasone, Kyodo
News Service said. Matsunaga also advised that the prime minister
should be prepared to discuss U.S.-Japan economic issues. Matsunaga
cited issues such as a U.S.-Japan micro chip trade pact, foreign
access to the Kansai international airport project, and a new
international telecommunications firm. Matsunaga returned on Sunday to
report to Japanese leaders on recent U.S. Developments over trade, in
preparation for Nakasone's visit to Washington, April 29 to May 5.
Kyodo quoted Nakasone as telling reporters after meeting the envoy, "I
entirely accept what ambassador Matsunaga recommended." Nakasone did
not elaborate. The U.S.-Japan trade dispute intensified last week when
President Ronald Reagan said the U.S. Would impose heavy tariffs on
Japanese imports in retaliation against alleged Japanese breach of the
computer chip trade pact. Meanwhile, Nakasone's ruling Liberal
Democratic Party (LDP) is to consider measures to boost imports and
open up the Japanese market, such as government purchase of
supercomputers and expanding foreign access to the Kansai airport
project, party sources said. The LDP international economic affairs
council was responding to Nakasone's request for measures to reduce
Japan's increasing trade surpluses with the U.S. And Europe, they
said. REUTER 

GERMAN BANK SEES GOOD SOVIET TRADE PROSPECTS
    FRANKFURT, March 13 - 
Soviet-West German trade is expected to develop favourably due to
Moscow's increasing openness to East-West economic relations, Dresdner
Bank AG's Moscow representative Michael Stein said. He told a bank
presentation the Soviet Union was last year hit by the fall in world
oil prices, which cut export revenue from oil-related products and
natural gas, and its overseas buying power was also adversely affected
by the lower dollar. Dresdner Bank economist Alfred Apholte said the
Soviet Union's large currency and gold reserves had softened the
impact of the dollar weakening and oil price drop. REUTER 

JAPAN, U.S. SET TO BEGIN HIGH-LEVEL TRADE TALKS
    TOKYO, March 2 - 
Japan and the U.S. Kick off top-level trade talks tomorrow amid signs
officials from both sides are growing increasingly irritated with each
other. The talks, held annually at sub-cabinet level to review the
whole gamut of U.S./Japan economic relations, will pave the way for
American Secretary of State George Schultz's one day stop-over here at
end-week on his way home from China. Faced with growing Congressional
protectionist pressure, the U.S. Administration is pressing Japan for
speedy action to reduce its still huge trade surplus, U.S. Officials
said. "We appreciate their frustration," a senior Japanese government
official said. "But we are also frustrated." The official said the 40
pct rise of the yen over the last 18 months has hit Japan hard,
forcing exporters to slash spending and lay off workers to make up for
lost sales abroad. That has not yet shown up in dollar-based
statistics on trade, but it will, he said. He said the U.S.
Administration was ignoring the progress that has been made and
instead emphasizing the problems that remain when it talks with
Congress. "It would only take five minutes to list their
accomplishments," a senior U.S. Official replied. The talks begin
tomorrow with high-level discussions on the economic structures of
both countries and how they affect the bilateral trade imbalance,
which last year amounted to 51.48 billion dlrs in Japan's favour. On
the following two days, the topics will range from multilateral trade
talks under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) to such bilateral trade problems as super computers. The
structural talks are intended to be free-wheeling discussions among
senior officials. Tomorrow's topics include savings and investment
issues such as consumer credit and housing, and the implications of
government budget deficits. These talks come at a particularly
delicate time for the Japanese government, which is facing increasing
domestic pressure to abandon its tight-fisted fiscal policy and
stimulate the sagging economy by spending more. Some U.S. Officials
complained Japan has no intention of boosting domestic demand and
imports, as Washington wants. Japanese officials in turn pointed the
finger at the huge U.S. Budget deficit as one of the main culprits for
the trade imbalance. That budget deficit has meant that the U.S. Is
buying more imports. Japan seems particularly peeved at being singled
in a draft trade bill before the Senate as a nation following
adverserial trade practices. "It condemns Japan without due process,"
one Japanese official said. That reference spoils what is otherwise a
well-thought-out bill introduced by Democratic Senator Lloyd Bentsen,
he said. Japan is also not totally happy with the administration's
trade bill, particularly its proposal to establish reciprocal access
to foreign markets as one criteria for retaliatory trade action by the
U.S., Officials said. Nevertheless, Japanese officials said they
remain in a weak bargaining position, especially with the threat of a
trade bill overhanging them. "We have no leverage," one official
admitted. As a result, Tokyo is striving to meet U.S. Complaints about
its trade practices in a variety of fields, including super computers.
The U.S. Is pressing for greater access to the Japanese super computer
market. The Japanese government has sent a long questionnaire to
public institutions like universities which buy the sophisticated
machines in hopes of eventually setting up informal bidding procedures
easily understood by all potential sellers, officials said. REUTER 

U.S. HOUSE PANEL VOTES TO EASE EXPORT CONTROLS
    WASHINGTON, March 18 - 
A key House panel voted to greatly ease government controls on exports
as several House committees moved rapidly toward approval of major
changes in trade laws they hope will help solve U.S. trade woes. The
House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on International Economic Policy
voted to direct the administration to cut the list of controlled
exports by 40 per cent by removing items no longer considered
important to U.S. military security. Industries had complained they
were losing sales to foreign competitors who were allowed to export
freely products U.S. companies could not sell abroad. The issue has
been the subject of administration debate. The Commerce Department had
held that unnecessary restrictions impeded U.S. exports while the
Defense Department said current controls should be retained but better
administered. Four congressional panels met today to consider portions
of a wideranging trade bill that intends to help U.S. companies sell
more products abroad and to fight unfair foreign trade practices.
Their separate proposals, some of them conflicting, will be woven by
House Democratic leaders into a final trade bill for a vote by the
full House in late April. Sparked by the proposal of Fujitsu Ltd. to
take controlling interest in Schlumberger Ltd's Fairchild
Semiconductor Corp., the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on
Commerce voted to expand Reagan's authority to block foreign takeovers
of U.S. companies. Reagan would be able to block any takeover found to
be damaging to U.S. economic or national security interests. "We are
losing our semiconductors which are at the heart of our national
security," subcommittee chairman James Florio, a New Jersey Democrat
said. The subcommittee also called for the administration to consider
retaliation against Japan for its restrictive government procurement
practices. The retaliation could be triggered by a requirement that
the administration investigate whether U.S. companies were treated
unfairly and whether they have been barred from bids on lucrative
public works projects such as the eight billion dlr Kansai airport
construction. U.S. firms have complained they were not allowed to bid
on its construction. At the urging of the U.S. recording industry, the
subcommittee agreed to bar imports of a new Japanese product--digital
audio recorders. Meeting in closed session, the House Ways and Means
Committee agreed to allow President Reagan to retaliate against
foreign countries that refuse to open their markets to U.S.
telecommunications products. Congressional aides said the committee
also agreed U.S. companies would be allowed to press for relief from
imports of counterfeit products made in violation of U.S. copyright
and patent laws. Reuter 

NO PESSIMISM FOR GERMAN EXPORTERS, MINISTRY
    BONN, March 26 - 
Firms need not be pessimistic about export prospects even though
foreign markets have become more difficult because of the mark's
strength the Economics Ministry said. The ministry's parliamentary
state secretary Ludolf Georg von Wartenberg, told a business
conference German exports could start rising again in real terms
during 1987, reversing the lower export trend which emerged in
mid-1986. But even if the turnaround did not occur, there would be no
need to worry about the economy as long as the weakness of exports did
not affect currently good domestic demand. Von Wartenberg said
consumer demand remained quite good but noted there had been a cooling
in the investment climate. "This is certainly a reason for heightened
watchfulness but not for stimulative steps," he said. The best way for
Bonn to help its exporters is to work actively to promote free world
trade, he added. Von Wartenberg said the economy still had good export
opportunities. Price alone was not the only factor in international
competitiveness, he said, adding German firms have a reputation for
high quality standards, prompt delivery times and good service. Von
Wartenberg said the government was in a difficult position on its
trade figures. It faced international pressure to reduce its trade
surplus, but West Germans were worried about the effect of the mark's
strength on the country's exporters. Reports about the trade surplus,
especially overseas, tended to concentrate on nominal trade figures,
which rose to a record 112.2 billion marks in 1986, he said. But this
rise was due entirely to the lower value of imports caused by the
decline of both the dollar and oil prices. German exports have in fact
been falling in real terms for sometime, he said. REUTER 

ROSTENKOWSKI RELUCTANT TO BACK TAX HIKE
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski said he would
be reluctant to back the tax increase if it did not have President
Reagan's support. He told a National Press Club luncheon there would
be a number of tax proposals that could be debated if Reagan sought a
tax increase to help balance the budget. However, he said he would
prefer to leave the tax rates enacted in last year's tax reform bill
unchanged. There have been calls in Congress to hold the rates at the
1987 level rather than allow them to fall next year. Reagan proposed
22 billion dlrs in revenue as part of his 1988 budget proposal, but it
did not include general tax increases. On trade issues, Rostenkowski
said he did not expect the major trade bill this year would single out
any U.S. industry for special protection. "To go after individual
items in a trade bill is suicide," he said. This apparently ruled out
congressional approval of another textile trade bill to limit quotas
on textile imports, as was proposed again this year. Reuter 

OECD AGREES EXPORT CREDIT REFORMS
    PARIS, March 17 - 
The western industrialised nations have agreed reforms in rules by
which they provide credit for exports to developing countries, the
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said. The
reforms tighten the rules for the use of foreign aid to subsidise
export credits in so-called "mixed credits," the OECD said. The
agreement, to be implemented in two stages in July this year and July
1988, means the minimum aid component in mixed credits will be raised
to 35 pct from 25 pct, and to 50 pct for credits covering exports to
the world's least developed nations. Additionally, a new formula will
be used for calculating the aid element in mixed credits, to take
account of different interest rates in the exporting countries, the
24-nation OECD, which hosted the reform negotiations, said. Minimum
interest rates for officially subsidised trade loans have also been
revised with the aim of cutting the subsidies, and ending them
completely on loans to relatively rich developing countries by July
next year. The reforms follow several years of pressure by the U.S. To
stop competitors, notably France and Japan, using foreign aid to
subsidise exports, putting U.S. Firms at a disadvantage. OECD
officials said the agreement was based on a provisional accord reached
in January subject to ratification by member governments. Some
governments, including Austria, had linked their final approval to
other trade credit issues which would be discussed at a meeting here
in mid-April, they added. By raising the minimum amount of aid
required in mixed credits the agreement aims to make such hidden
subsidies too costly for frequent use. "A major loophole in the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade has been closed today," a
senior U.S. Official here commented. REUTER 

SWISS CAPITAL EXPORTS RISE IN JANUARY
    ZURICH, March 3 - 
Swiss capital exports rose to 4.64 billion francs in January after
2.54 billion in December and a year earlier 3.64 billion, the Swiss
National Bank said. New bond issues accounted for 4.12 billion of the
total after December's 2.15 billion, and credits 525.1 mln after 389.9
mln. In January 1985, before the National Bank ended the distinction
between notes and bonds, bond issues totalled 1.66 billion francs,
notes 1.39 billion and credits 597.5 mln. REUTER 

TRADE INTERESTS READY FOR BATTLE IN U.S. HOUSE
    WASHINGTON, March 16 - 
U.S. lawmakers are gearing up for a showdown between protectionists
and free traders as a major trade bill winds its way through
committees to a vote by the full House of Representatives in late
April. In a move to toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws, a key
House subcommittee last week approved a toned-down version of
legislation to require President Reagan to retaliate against foreign
countries that follow unfair trade practices. The bill will be the
cornerstone of congressional efforts to restore competitiveness of
American industries and turn around last year's record 169 billion
dlrs trade deficit. Generally, the bill's provisions toughen U.S.
enforcement of trade laws. The trade bill forces the administration to
act rapidly on complaints of unfair trade practices, such as dumping
products in the United States at prices below cost of production. It
also forces the administration to act rapidly when an industry
complains that a surge in imports threatens its existence. In writing
the bill, the subcommittee rejected calls for trade relief for
specific industries such as textiles. Several lawmakers have argued
the new trade bill made too many concessions to Reagan and said they
intend to back amendments to "get tough" with countries that violate
trade agreements or keep out U.S. products. But congressmen known for
their allegiance to free trade said the bill ties Reagan's hands too
much in trade disputes and they will seek to restore his negotiating
powers. Bill Frenzel, R-MI., said the subcommittee's bill was not one
"that a free trader like me could endorse in all respects," but he
emphasized there was a consensus among lawmakers to work toward a bill
Reagan and Republicans would ultimately endorse. The goal of trade
legislation was "to make our trade policy stronger without violating
our international trade agreements," he said. In a key concession made
at the urging of Ways and Means Committee chairman Dan Rostenkowski,
D-IL., the trade subcommittee backed off a requirement that would have
forced Reagan to impose automatically quotas or tariffs on imports
from countries that engage in unfair trade practices. It also agreed
the president may waive any retaliation if it would hurt the U.S.
economy. Rostenkowski insisted the more moderate approach was
necessary if the House wanted to pass a bill Reagan would sign into
law. Reagan last year blocked Senate consideration of a tough House
trade bill he branded as protectionist and this year he only
reluctantly agreed to support a trade bill when he saw Democratic
leaders were determined to pass such legislation. White House
spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters late last week that the
administration still did not like some of the bill's provisions, but
he added, "Generally we feel very good about the bipartisan
consideration of the trade legislation. I think we are progressing
very well." The first battle will take place next week when the full
House Ways and Means Committee considers an amendment by Rep. Richard
Gephardt, D-MO., to force countries like Japan, South Korea and Taiwan
to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S. The subcommittee limited
the Gephardt plan to provide only that the existence of a large trade
surplus with the United States will trigger an investigation of unfair
trade practices, but would not automatically set off retaliation.
Organized labor has pressed lawmakers for more relief from imports
where jobs have been lost to foreign competition. AFL-CIO president
Lane Kirkland this year angered the administration when he said any
trade bill Reagan would sign would not be worth passage in Congress.
But Rostenkowski set the tone of the trade debate by saying, "I'm not
trying to write legislation to please Lane Kirkland. I'm trying to
write legislation that will be signed by the president." Rep. Ed
Jenkins (D-GA.) intends to push separately a bill to protect the
domestic textile and shoe industry, an aide said. Reagan vetoed a
similar measure last year. House Speaker Jim Wright of Texas, one of
the most influential proponents of aid for specific industries beset
by low-priced foreign competition, last week renewed his call for
import relief for the domestic oil industry and announced his support
for a Senate plan to trigger a temporary oil import tariff when
imports reach half of domestic consumption. Reuter 

SENATE WANTS JAPAN SEMICONDUCTER PACT ENFORCED
    WASHINGTON, March 20 - 
The U.S. Senate has unanimously called for President Reagan
immediately to force Japan to live up to a pledge to stop dumping its
microchips and open its markets to U.S. Chipmakers. The Senate voted
93 to 0 to urge Reagan to impose penalties on Japanese high-technology
products containing semiconductors in retaliation for what it sees as
Japan's violations of the semiconductor pact. While the measure does
not bind Reagan to any action, Senate leaders said its adoption would
warn Japan stiffer legislation would be considered if the violations
continue. "We want to send a message to Japan to let it know how the
Senate feels about this matter," Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd
told the Senate. Senate Finance Committee chairman Lloyd Bentsen told
the Senate the measure was not aimed at retaliation but at correcting
Japan's unfair trade practices. A key House trade lawmaker,
Representative Richard Gephardt also announced he would seek to force
Japan and other countries with huge trade surpluses to slash their
surplus by 10 pct a year for three years. REUTER 

YEUTTER SEES GATT CONSENSUS ON FARM TRADE REFORM
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said trade ministers meeting
here have reached a general consensus on agricultural trade reform
under the latest Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT). Yeutter gave no precise details of the understanding but
told journalists the consensus covers the principles involved in
agricultural trade reform and what needs to be done to improve the
global situation in agriculture. Delegates from 22 countries are
meeting informally to discuss progress made since the latest GATT
round was launched in Punta del Este, Uruguay, last September. Yeutter
said "at least people seem to be going down the same road...But how
that translates ultimately into negotiations is another matter
entirely." There seems to be an understanding of the need to deal with
the problem quickly and "a more common understanding of how we are
going to get from here to there," Yeutter said. However, the hard work
is still to come, with a couple of years of tough negotiations ahead,
he said. "It is ludicrous for the nations of the world to plough
immense amounts of financial resources into the production of items
that nobody wants to buy," he said. He said the long-term answer is to
switch some of the financial resources now committed to agriculture to
other more productive areas. This would help agriculture because some
its inefficient non-productive segments would stop operating, he said.
Individual segments in many countries may lose in the process, but it
should result in a more rational system of world-wide production
within 10 or 15 years, he said. It is important that the agriculture
negotiations reach a relatively early conclusion because the U.S. Is
spending 26 billion dlrs a year and the European Community probably
more than that, which is an ineffective use of financial resources, he
said. Asked about the prospect of a priority for agriculture in the
negotiations, he said "one has to be politically realistic... If there
is any chance of getting it (agricultural trade reform) done in two to
three years it's going to have to be as part of a larger package."
REUTER 

EC AND COMECON ENDS TALKS WITH PROGRESS
    GENEVA, March 20 - 
The European Community (EC) and Soviet-led Comecon ended talks here,
having made progress on setting up formal trade relations, but no
breakthrough because of Comecon's refusal to recognise West Berlin as
part of the EC, delegates said. Negotiators were trying to reach
agreement on the draft of a joint declaration setting up official
relations after 30 years of mutual non-recognition. John Maslen, head
of the EC delegation, told Reuters as he emerged from the final
session: "We made some progress, but we have called for another
meeting." Officials, who asked not to be named, said the Comecon team
had refused to accept a clause in the draft declaration which would
recognise West Berlin as part of the 12-nation EC. Under the 1957
Treaty of Rome all contracts and agreements signed by the Community
must contain this territorial clause stipulating West Berlin is an
integral part of the EC. An EC negotiator taking part in the three-day
talks said: "We wanted the territorial clause in, but Comecon said
no." A joint statement issued after the talks said progress was made
towards clarifying positions, but another meeting would be necessary
to complete the work. Any decision in principle to set up relations
would require approval by the Community's Council of Ministers and by
the executive committee of Comecon. Zdzislaw Kuroski, deputy director
of Comecon, who heads the East bloc delegation, told Reuters ahead of
today's session: "We have narrowed our differences on a range of
questions, but not on all questions." Asked whether Comecon would
accept EC insistence that any joint declaration stipulate West Berlin
as part of the Community, he replied: "This question is not contained
in the draft which our side presented." West German diplomats said
they would insist on including the clause on West Berlin in any EC-
Comecon agreement. The talks followed an earlier round between the two
trading blocs here last September and the first-ever direct talks
between the EC and the Soviet Union on establishing diplomatic
relations in January. The EC trades with individual Comecon member
states despite non-recognition of Comecon. Last year, the EC had a
five billion dlr trade deficit with East European states, about half
the deficit of the previous year, due to a drop in the price of Soviet
oil imported by the EC. REUTER 

BALDRIGE WARNS OF WORLD TRADE WAR DANGER
    WASHINGTON, March 15 - 
U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige predicted Congress will pass
a reasonable trade bill this year and said tough protectionist
legislation could prompt a trade war. "The mood of the Congress right
now is as tough on trade as I've ever seen it in six years in
Washington," Baldrige said in a television interview. "I think we'll
still be able to get a reasonable trade bill out in spite of that
because the whole Congress is trying to work together with the
administration, but there is a hardening trade attitude," he said.
President Reagan opposes protectionist legislation, but agreed to
support a trade bill when it became apparent that opposition Democrats
would pass such legislation. However, Baldrige warned measures that
would penalise trading partners such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan
for failing to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S. Could lead to
retaliation and he said he would urge Reagan to veto any such bill.
When asked if there is a rising danger of a worldwide trade war,
Baldrige said: "Yes, I don't think there's any question about that."
REUTER 

SOVIET MINISTER SAYS TRADE BOOST UP TO FRENCH
    PARIS, March 11 - 
Soviet first deputy prime minister Vsevolod Murakhovsky said at the
end of a brief visit here his country wanted to boost joint business
with France, but that a reduction of France's trade deficit with the
Soviet Union depended on the French. Murakhovsky, who is also chairman
of the State Agro-Industrial Committee (GOSAGROPROM), told a news
conference he had discussed a variety of possible deals with French
companies Rhone-Poulenc, Pechiney and Imec. Declining to put figures
on possible contracts he said he had discussed plant protection and
the processing of highly sulphuric gas with Rhone-Poulenc, packaging
technology for agricultural products with Pechiney, and fruit and
vegetable juice processing with Imec. An official for Pechiney said an
agreement of intent on packaging could be signed soon, but could not
give any other details. The other two companies were not immediately
available for comment. Asked whether he foresaw a reduction this year
of France's trade shortfall, at 7.6 billion francs in the first 11
months of 1986 against 5.1 billion for the whole of 1985, Murakhovsky
told Reuters: "It all depends on France." At a meeting in Paris last
January French and Soviet foreign trade ministers said they were
committed to increased efforts to reduce the deficit. Estimates at the
time showed a French 190 mln franc surplus for December 1986.
Murakhovsky said the Soviet Union was prepared to talk with anybody
with "interesting" proposals offering latest technology and assuring
"a mutual advantage." He said the Soviet Union had many tasks ahead of
it and would deal rapidly with proposals it considered interesting. He
encouraged companies to take advantage of new laws guaranteeing "the
interests of foreign partners" in joint ventures. But he said no
agreements had yet been finalised under the new joint venture laws. He
said concrete deals had not yet been finalised as a result of a one
billion dollar accord signed in Moscow last month with French
businessman Jean-Baptiste Doumeng. He said Doumeng's Interagra company
was preparing proposals for further examination by the Soviet Union.
Doumeng last month said the agreement was to exchange one billion
dollars worth of goods. Murakhovsky said the agreement was one of
intent, and designed primarily to renew and increase the Soviet
Union's food production capacity. Reuter 

CANADA OUTLINES GATT AGRICULTURAL REFORM PLAN
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - 
Canadian Trade Minister Pat Carney said that agricultural policies
should not hurt world international trade and should therefore become
more price responsive over time. She told delegates at the informal
meeting of trade ministers that this was one of five principles Canada
wanted adopted in reforming agriculture in the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Secondly, support for agriculture should
avoid production incentives, and thirdly, countries should freeze and
seek to reduce government aid measures that distorted world prices,
Carney said. Carney said the fourth principle was that countries
should not introduce new import barriers not mandated by existing
legislation and the fifth was that these basic principles must be
implemented collectively. Carney later told Reuters the Canadian
guidelines are basically compatible with the seven point Australian
proposals announced in Davos, Switzerland, in January. European trade
sources said the conference welcomed the Canadian initiative but some
delegates, and not only the European Community, voiced reservations
about some of the principles. Carney said there was a lot of political
will among the ministers here to complete the Uruguay Round of GATT in
under four years and that there is also a realisation that it has to
be done in a balanced way. "The consensus view was to proceed as fast
as we can on a broad front and see what areas emerge where we can get
early conclusion," she said. However, the meeting did not identify
what those areas are, Carney said. She said Canada/U.S. Bilateral
trade negotiations, which must be concluded at least in draft form by
October, are progressing well. REUTER 

YEUTTER SEES U.S., JAPAN VERGING ON TRADE CONFLICT
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - 
The United States and Japan are on the brink of serious conflict on
trade, especially over semiconductors, Japanese unwillingness for
public bodies to buy U.S. Super-computers, and barriers to U.S. Firms
seeking to participate in the eight billion dlr Kansai airport
project, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said. He was
talking to reporters yesterday on the eve of a two-day meeting of
trade ministers which will review progress made by committees set up
after the Uruguay meeting last September launched a new round of GATT
(General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) talks. European Community
(EC) commissioner Willy de Clercq meanwhile told reporters conflict
between the world's three major trading and economic powers -- the EC,
the U.S. And Japan -- set a poor example for other members of GATT.
Australian Trade Minister John Dawkins told the reporters bilateral
retaliation at the enormous expense of the rest of the world was no
way to solve trade disputes. New Zealand trade minister Mike Moore
told his colleagues great progress had been made in preparing for the
current round of GATT negotiations which must not be sidetracked. The
ministers have said they want to maintain the momentum towards fresh
negotiations or avert serious trade conflicts. Yeutter said the
problem with international trade talks was that they tended to get
bogged down for years. "Countries don't get very serious about
negotiating until the end of the day which is, maybe, five or six
years in the future." He also said he did not consider the new U.S.
Congress as protectionist as it was 18 months ago. "That's a very
healthy development," he added."If you asked me about that a year or
18 months ago I would have said that it was terribly protectionist."
"Members of Congress, that is the contemplative members of Congress,
have begun to realise protectionism is not the answer to the 170
billion dlr trade deficit," Yeutter said. "They've also begun to
realise that you cannot legislate solutions to a 170 billion dollar
trade deficit so they are more realistic and, in my judgement, more
responsible on that issue than they were 12 or 18 months ago." He
added, "Whether that will be reflected in the legislation that
eventually emerges is another matter." REUTER 

DUTCH OFFICIAL WARNS OF MORE TRADE CONFLICTS
    THE HAGUE, March 17 - 
Already strained relations between the U.S. And the European Community
(EC) are likely to get worse before they get better, director general
of the Dutch Economics Ministry's foreign affairs division Frans
Engering said. Speaking at an American Chamber of Commerce lunch in
The Hague, Engering noted the developing history of crises over steel,
citrus and pasta, and warned of more to come. "I consider the strident
tone of US declarations on Airbus ill-advised, and the EC fats and
oils tax proposal a dangerous provocation," he said. "I feel that we
shall probably have to deal with quite a few more crises in the
foreseeable future." Not only is the US Congress clearly very
determined to get the American balance of payments into better shape,
but the risks of brinkmanship are all the greater because the EC has
its own constraints in meeting outside pressure, Engering noted. "If
we ask ourselves whether it is perhaps inevitable that we keep pushing
each other to the brink of actual trade war, then I think the answer
is probably yes," he said. In order to reduce these tensions,
decision-making in the EC must become less self-centred, and the US
Administration will have to exercise the authority to convince
Congress and pressure groups of the need for accommodation, he added.
Reuter 

BAKER SAYS G-6 PACT JUST A START
    WASHINGTON, March 6 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said the agreement among industrial
nations in Paris last month is only a start in Washington's drive to
intensify economic cooperation among leading countries. In a speech to
the National Newspaper Association, Baker said "the six steps
beginning with the Plaza Agreement and culminating in the Paris
Accord, are only a start." He added "we see our role as a steward of a
process in which we sit down with our industrial allies to find ways
to promote more balanced international growth." The Paris agreements
called trade surplus countries to strengthen their growth and on the
U.S. to reduce its budget deficit. Under such circumstances, the
countries agreed their currencies were within ranges broadly
consistent with economic fundamentals. Baker also said he still sees
"ominous" signs of pressure for protectionist trade legislation "and
this pressure for protectionism is coming from new areas of society."
But he also said he believed a coalition was forming that supported
free trade. Reuter 

JAPAN/U.S. WILL BE AT ODDS WHILE TRADE LOPSIDED
    TOKYO, April 2 - 
Japan is doing all it can to solve its trade problems with the United
States but the two nations will remain at odds as long as the trade
account is lopsided in Japan's favour, a senior official said. "So
long as there is an external imbalance there will be trade friction
and ...Harsh words between the two governments," the Foreign Ministry
official told reporters. Last year, Japan racked up a 51.5 billion dlr
surplus with the United States and economists said they do not see it
falling significantly any time soon. Washington announced plans last
week to slap up to 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on Japanese electronic
goods, raising the spectre of a trade war between the two countries.
"We take the current situation very seriously," said the official, who
declined to be identified. "The basic stance of the Japanese
government is to tackle the issues with all available resources." The
United States has accused Japan of reneging on an agreement that
called on it to stop selling cut-price computer microchips in world
markets and to try to import more American semiconductors. Tokyo has
denied the charges. The Foreign Ministry official refused to rule out
Japanese retaliation if America went ahead with its threatened tariffs
in the middle of this month. But he said that any response would be in
accordance with international law and Japan's international
obligations. He added that both Japan and the United States must take
account of the impact of their dispute on their own and the world
economy. REUTER 

BALDRIGE SEES U.S. TRADE DEFICIT STARTING TO DECLINE IN FEB OR MARCH DATA




STUDY SAYS U.S., CANADA PACT WOULD SPUR ECONOMIES
    WASHINGTON, March 9  - 
A free trade pact between the United States and Canada could spur the
economies of both sides substantially, according to a study released
by the Institute for International Economics. The study, by Paul
Wonnacott, said a successful conclusion to the free trade talks now
under way could raise Canada's gross national product by more than
five pct and expand U.S. export's by about seven pct. He said the pact
could resolve the knotty issue of government subsidies, end curbs on
trade in services and investments and pave the way for new global
talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The United
States and Canada - the world's two biggest trading partners with
cross border shipments of about 150 billion dlrs a year - opened free
trade talks last June. They are aiming for a pact by next October.
Wonnacott, an economics professor at the Univerity of Maryland, said
an agreement should include: - Elimination of tariffs between the two
countries, phased in over a five to 10-year period; - Equal access to
federal government procurement in the two countries, replacing current
"Buy America" and "Buy Canada" provisions with a "Buy North America"
provision; - Fewer restrictions in trade in services, chiefly finance
and transportation; - A commitment not to screen foreign investments
in favor domestic producers; - A commission to resolve bilateral trade
disputes. Wonnacott said that to resolve the subsidy problem, the two
sides should permit export subsidies of exports of up to 2.0 or 2.5
pct without imposing coutervailing duties. The limit on subsidies is
now 0.5 pct. He proposed that any attempt to impose new duties to
offset subsidies should go first a special disputes commission for
resolution at an early stage. Wonnacott said "bilateral free trade
would contribute to the efficiency of the North American economies and
to their competitiveness in facing overseas producers. He said it
would it would open U.S. markets to Canadian goods and enable them to
benefit from the economies of mass production. Benefits to the United
States would be fewer than those to Canada proportionately, he said,
because of the already large U.S. gross national product. Wonnacott
said also that a U.S.-Canada pact in such areas as export subsidies
and the creation of a dispute commission could set an example for the
current attempt by GATT to write new and more liberal global trading
regulations. Reuter 

TURKISH TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN 1986
    ANKARA, March 16 - 
Turkey's trade deficit rose to 3.65 billion dlrs in 1986 from 3.39
billion in 1985 following increased imports from Western countries,
figures from the State Statistics Institute show. Exports were down
6.3 pct at 7.45 billion dlrs, compared with 7.95 billion in 1985,
while imports were down 2.1 pct at 11.10 billion dlrs from 11.34
billion. Total trade with Mid-East Gulf states fell some 40 pct due to
lower oil prices, with imports at 1.55 billion dlrs, compared with
2.74 billion, and exports at 1.65 billion after 2.72 billion. Exports
to Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries
rose to 4.29 billion dlrs from 4.11 billion in 1985, while imports
were 4.56 billion after 3.55 billion. Turkey's trade deficit in
December narrowed to 216 mln dlrs from 340 mln in November, and
compared with 277 mln in December 1985. Reuter 

YEUTTER SAYS U.S. SHOULD STRESS TRADE NEGOTIATIONS AS LONG-TERM U.S. TRADE POLICY




U.S. OFFICIAL SEES EVIDENCE OF EXPORT GROWTH
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers, said he sees "growing but incomplete evidence that (U.S.)
export volumes are finally strengthening." In remarks prepared for a
speech today in Los Angeles, Sprinkel said the decline in the dollar's
value since 1985 had "largely" restored U.S. cost competitiveness in
world markets and appeared to signal an end to U.S. trade imbalances.
"I am confident that further improvements in our trade performance
will contribute significantly to U.S. growth in 1987," he said. Reuter


TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES WILL REDUCE TRADE DEFICIT THIS YEAR




U.S. SENATE PANEL COULD CONSIDER TRADE MEASURE
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee may take up a bill tomorrow that
would strengthen the activities of U.S. agricultural trade teams in
selected developing countries, committee staff said. The measure,
sponsored by committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Sen. John
Melcher (D-Mont.), would establish trade teams of between six and nine
persons drawn from federal agencies and private voluntary
organizations, staff said. The trade missions would seek to generate
interest in the U.S. government's food donation and commercial
programs -- PL480, Section 416, export credit and export enhancement
-- and upon return be required to advocate extension of concessional
or commercial benefits to interested countries. The trade teams would
be made up of representatives of the U.S. Agriculture Department,
State Department, the Agency for International Development and private
voluntary organizations such as U.S. Wheat Associates. The bill would
require teams within six months to visit seven countries: Mexico,
Philippines, Indonesia, India, Bangladesh, Senegal and Nigeria. Within
one year after passage of the measure, another eight countries would
have to be visited: Peru, Kenya, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica,
Malaysia, Venezuela, Tunisia and Morocco. Other countries could be
added to the list. Senate staff members said the bill, still in the
drafting stages, had broad support and was expected to be approved by
the committee tomorrow. Reuter 

U.S./JAPAN TRADE WAR NOT IN UK'S INTEREST - LAWSON
    LONDON, March 31 - 
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said the United States
and Japan must work to avert a possible trade war, and he added that a
trade war would not be in the interests of Britain. Lawson told
journalists that "the prospects for the (U.K.) economy look very very
good - providing we can avoid a trade war." He stressed that "a heavy
responsiblity in different ways lies on Japan and the United States to
ensure that we do avoid such a trade war." Asked whether he believed
such a trade war could be averted, Lawson replied, "I very much hope
so." Britain last week warned that it would retaliate if Japan did not
move soon to open its markets to outside competition. Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher gave notice that the U.K. Would fight the Japanese
government's attempt to prevent (Cable and Wireless Plc) (CAWL.L) from
taking a significant position in a new Japanese international
telecommunications venture. But British officials are now trying to
dampen anti-Japanese rhetoric, to try to keep developments under
control. The British Conservative government will on Thursday consider
what legal options are available to it to try to increase U.K. Access
to Japanese markets, officials said. REUTER 

FRANCE REDUCES TRADE DEFICIT IN FEBRUARY
    PARIS, March 16 - 
France posted a seasonally adjusted trade deficit of 400 mln francs in
February after a 2.5 billion franc deficit in January, the Finance
Ministry said. For the first two months of this year the trade
deficit, on a seasonally adjusted basis, was 2.9 billion francs.
Unadjusted, the February deficit was 2.4 billion francs and the two-
month cumulative deficit 8.1 billion, the ministry said in a
statement. The Ministry said February exports totalled 73.8 billion
francs, an 8.9 pct increase on January, while imports totalled 74.3
billion francs, an increase of 5.8 pct. Farm and food trade showed a
two billion franc surplus after a surplus of 2.4 billion in January.
The energy deficit was reduced to 6.5 billion francs from eight
billion in January, while industrial trade showed a surplus of 1.4
billion francs against only 800 mln francs in January. REUTER 

TAIWAN FURTHER RELAXES FOREIGN GOODS IMPORT CURBS
    TAIPEI, March 12 - 
Taiwan said it would soon relax import controls on some 400 foreign
items, including stationery and books, in a further effort to allow
trading partners, especially the U.S., Greater access to its markets.
Taiwan announced the easing of import curbs on some 600 farm and
industrial products last month, a Council for Economic Planning and
Development spokesman told Reuters. He said the new move was intended
to balance trade between Taiwan and its trading partners. The island's
trade surplus reached a record 15.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year, up
from 10.62 billion in 1985. In January, Taiwan cut import tariffs on
some 1,700 foreign products and allowed imports of U.S. Wine, beer and
cigarettes. "We hope the measures will help reduce our trade surplus
this year, especially with that of the U.S.," the spokesman said.
Washington is pressing Taiwan to open its markets wider as a way of
cutting its trade deficit with the island, which rose to 2.35 billion
U.S. Dlrs in the first two months of 1987 from 1.87 billion in the
year-earlier period. REUTER 

BALDRIGE WARNS OF WORLD TRADE WAR DANGER
    WASHINGTON, March 16 - 
U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige predicted Congress will pass
a reasonable trade bill this year and said tough protectionist
legislation could prompt a trade war. "The mood of the Congress right
now is as tough on trade as I've ever seen it in six years in
Washington," Baldrige said in a weekend television interview. "I think
we'll still be able to get a reasonable trade bill out in spite of
that because the whole Congress is trying to work together with the
administration, but there is a hardening trade attitude," he said.
President Reagan opposes protectionist legislation but agreed to
support a trade bill when it became apparent that opposition Democrats
would pass such legislation. However, Baldrige warned measures that
would penalize trading partners such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan
for failing to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S. could lead to
retaliation and he said he would urge Reagan to veto any such bill.
When asked if there is a rising danger of a worldwide trade war,
Baldrige said: "Yes, I don't think there's any question about that."
Reuter 

CANADA PRIME MINISTER SAYS A MAJOR TRADE DEAL EMERGING WITH U.S.




CANADA JANUARY TRADE SURPLUS 533 MLN DLRS
    OTTAWA, Mar 12 - 
Canada had a trade surplus of 533 mln dlrs in January compared with an
upward revised 965 mln dlrs surplus in December, Statistics Canada
said. The December surplus originally was reported at 964 mln dlrs.
The January surplus last year was 1.19 billion dlrs. January exports,
seasonally adjusted, were 9.72 billion dlrs against 10.39 billion in
December and 10.89 billion in January, 1986. January imports were 9.19
billion dlrs against 9.43 billion in December and 9.71 billion in
January 1986. Reuter 

JORDAN, SUDAN SIGN 100 MLN DLR BARTER TRADE PACT
    AMMAN, March 19 - 
Jordan and Sudan signed a barter trade agreement under which they will
exchange 100 mln dlrs' worth of goods a year, Sudanese officials said.
They said Sudan will export corn, sesame, peanuts, spices and cow
hides, while Jordan will export cement, tomato puree, chemicals and
pharmaceuticals. Reuter 

HOUSE WAYS AND MEANS CMTE FINISHES WORK ON BILL TO TOUGHEN TRADE LAWS




DUTCH TRADE FULLY IN BALANCE BUT DOWN IN JANUARY
    THE HAGUE, March 13 - 
The Netherlands recorded a flat trade balance in January, with both
exports and imports totaling 14.2 billion guilders, a modestly lower
compared with December but sharply down from January last year, an
Economics Ministry spokesman said, quoting official statistics.
January 1986 exports compared with a December figure of 15.0 billion
guilders and were 25 pct below last year's level of 18.9 billion.
January 1986 imports compared with 15.3 billion guilders in December
and fell 18 pct from 17.4 billion in January last year. REUTER 

SENIOR U.S. OFFICIAL TO VISIT JAPAN AS TRADE ROW GROWS
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Undersecretary of State Michael Armacost will visit Tokyo next week
for meetings with high-level officials that will include discussions
of a growing trade row over Japanese semiconductor electronics
products. He is the first high-level U.S. official to visit Japan
since President Reagan announced last week plans to impose tariffs
worth up to 30 mln dls on Japanese electronic goods on April 17 in
retaliation for Tokyo's alleged failure to live up to a pact on
microchip trade signed last September. The trip is set for April 6-8,
the state department said. Reuter 

BRITISH AIDE CRITICIZES U.S.PROTECTIONISM
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
A senior British official said that protectionist bills being
considered by Congress could trigger retaliation by the European
Community (EEC) and threaten the global trading system. Paul Channon,
secretary for trade and industry, said if Congress passed legislation
to curb textile imports, which would hit EC shipments as well as
shipments from major Asian textile producers, "the community would
have to retaliate." His comments echoed those made yesterday by
Belgian Trade Minister Herman De Croo, who said if the bill passed,
the community would retaliate by imposing taxes on U.S. exports.
Channon made his remarks at a news conference after two days of talks
with Reagan Administration officials and members of Congress. De Croo
was also in Washington for trade talks. Channon said there was a
greater protectionism sentiment in Congress since his visit here last
year as Congress and the Administration tried to find ways to reduce
the U.S. trade deficit, which last year hit a record 169.8 billion
dlrs. Channon also called for greater EC-U.S. cooperation to force
Japan to open its markets to foreign goods. Channon said Japan's trade
surplus is causing everyone problems - its surplus with the United
States last year was 51.5 billion dlrs and with EC nations, 16.7
billion dlrs. "The more united pressure there could be, the better,"
he said. Channon also called for increased U.S.-EC cooperation to
avoid trade disputes. He said the two sides narrowly avoided a
confrontation earlier this year over lost grains sales when Spain and
Portugal joined the community and its liberal imports regulations were
tightened to conform to EC standards. "But if both sides drew back
from the brink that time," he said, ""it does not mean that they would
do so on another occasion." Channon added that "There is increasing
reesentment in Europe over the U.S. tactic of negotiating under the
pressure of unilaterally imposed deadlines." He said other potential
conflicts are already in sight - alleged European government subsidies
of Airbus aircraft and taxes on fats and oils - and "the commuity and
the United States must therefore learn to manage their relations
better." He said another bill to let the United States retaliate
against a nation if that nation's market was not open to U.S. goods
would bypass the trade pact GATT (General Agreeeement on Tariffs and
Trade) as an arbiter of trade practices. He said foreign trade law
should be judged by GATT and not by the United States, adding "if the
(trade) law is to be interpreted by the United States and not by the
GATT, what is to happen to the rest of us?" reuter 

REAGAN READY TO IMPOSE TRADE CURBS AGAINST JAPAN
    WASHINGTON, March 27 - 
President Reagan was ready to impose retaliatory trade action against
Japan for breaking its semiconductor agreement with the United States,
White House officials said. There was no immediate indication when
Reagan might act on the recommendations of his Economic Policy Council
to curb Japanese exports to the United States, but officials said the
move could come today or early next week. Trade sources said the
actions being weighed by Reagan include tariffs on a wide variety of
Japanese exports which use semiconductors. The sources said the
tariffs could be slapped on personal computers, television receivers
and laser-printers, with the aim of penalizing Japan's major
electronic firms, including NEC Corp, Hitachi Ltd, Toshiba Corp and
Fujitsu Ltd. They said Reaan could also delay invoking sanctions for a
week or two, giving Japan a final opportunity to end the dumping
practice, but added that negotiators had already held extensive talks
with the Japanese to no avail. Reuter 

U.S. TRADE OFFICIAL SAYS JAPAN ACTION FOOLISH
    WASHINGTON, March 30 - 
A high level U.S. trade official said it would be foolish for Japan to
strike back against the United States for its sanctions on Japanese
semiconductor electronics products. Asked by reporters if Japan was
expected to retaliate against U.S. exports, Deputy Under Secretary of
Commerce Bruce Smart replied, "That would be the height of
foolishness." In addition, he doubted Japan could show enough progress
in meeting the conditions of the agreement to avoid the actual
imposition of the 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on April 17. Japan's 58.6
billion dlr trade surplus with the United States last year has come
under fire in Congress concerned about the loss of jobs to foreign
competition and with the record 169 billion dlrs U.S. trade deficit in
1986. President Reagan's sanctions decision won praise today from the
two Democratic leaders of Congress. "I think it's about time," Senate
Democratic Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia told reporters. House
Speaker Jim Wright of Texas told reporters before the opening of the
House session, "It just shows we were right all along when we said
something needs doing." Smart testified before a Senate Labor
Committee hearing that last Friday's U.S. trade action would help U.S.
negotiations on access to Japan for U.S. auto parts. Since last August
Smart has been leading talks to open up Japan to purchases of more
U.S.-made automotive parts. Last year, Japan racked up a 3.6 billion
dlr trade surplus with the United States in these products. Both
countries expect to conclude the talks by August 1987. "It's amazing
to me that the Japanese were surprised. I hope it will persuade them
we're serious," Smart said of the White House trade sanctions. The
United States has tried to convince Japanese car companies of the
quality of American-made parts and to draw them away from their
traditional Japanese suppliers. "All we ask is a chance. We have a job
to do persuading them we can do better than our reputation seems to
be," he said. Measured per car, each American-made car contained about
700 dlrs in Japanese auto parts while each Japanese-made car contained
about 26 dlrs in U.S. auto parts, Smart said. Reuter 

JAPAN'S CHIP MAKERS ANGERED BY U.S. SANCTION PLANS
    TOKYO, March 28 - 
Japanese computer chip makers reacted angrily to news the United
States plans to take retaliatory action against them for allegedly
failing to live up to an agreement on trade in computer microchips.
Electronic Industries Association of Japan (EIAJ) Chairman Shoichi
Saba stated: "EIAJ believes that it is premature and even irrational
to attempt an assessment of the impact of the agreement and our
efforts to comply with it only six months after concluding the
agreement." "We urge U.S. Governmental authorities to reconsider the
decision made, to evaluate fairly the results of Japanese efforts in
implementing the objectives of the agreement, and to resist emotional
biases," he said. Yesterday, Washington announced plans to slap as
much as 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on Japanese imports in retaliation for
what is sees as Japan's failure to comply with the terms of the pact.
The agreement, struck late last year after months of heated
negotiations, called on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips on world
markets and to buy more American-made semiconductors. To salvage the
pact, Tokyo has instructed its chip makers to slash production and has
helped establish a multi-lateral organisation designed to promote chip
imports. Saba said that Japanese chip companies have pledged three mln
dlrs over the next five years to the new organisation and expressed
regret that no American company has seen fit to join. "This suggests
that American semiconductor manufacturers may not be really interested
in participating in the Japanese market," he said. REUTER 

BRAZIL TRADE SURPLUS RISES IN FEBRUARY
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 16 - 
The trade surplus doubled in february to 261 mln dlrs from January's
129 mln, but was below the 628 mln of February 1986, official figures
show. The director of the Banco do Brasil's foreign trade department
(CACEX), Roberto Fendt, told reporters the upturn in February
confirmed a rising trend in exports, which totalled 1.53 billion dlrs
against 1.26 billion in January and, after excluding coffee and oil
derivitives, was only slightly below the same month last year. Coffee
earnings were down to 110 mln dlrs against 295 mln in February 1986
because of lower prices, he added. Fendt said that although the
February results were lower than the average expected for the rest of
the year, the government's target of an eight-billion-dlr surplus for
1987 should be achieved. This would compare with a 1986 surplus of 9.5
billion dlrs. Exports this year are expected to total 22.5 billion
dlrs and imports 14.5 billion, he added. In 1986 exports totalled 22.4
billion dlrs and imports 12.9 billion. Fendt said the rise in imports
in February to 1.27 billion dlrs from 1.12 billion in February last
year was in line with government plans to foster economic growth.
Fendt said that imports were running at levels well above the
traditional average for Brazil. In the first two months of the year
imports, excluding oil and wheat totalled, 1.8 billion dlrs against
1.47 billion in the same 1986 period. This rise in import demand
reflected the needs of Brazilian industry to equip to raise production
and is perfectly compatible with the government's program for economic
growth, Fendt added. Reuter 

CHINA REPORTS 700 MLN DLR TWO-MONTH TRADE DEFICIT
    PEKING, March 16 - 
China's trade deficit totalled 700 mln dlrs in the first two months of
this year, according to figures released by the State Statistics
Bureau. The New China News Agency quoted the Bureau as saying foreign
trade totalled 9.3 billion dlrs in the period, of which exports were
worth 4.3 billion dlrs. The bureau said total trade volume was up 2.5
pct on the same 1986 period, with exports up 18.1 pct, but it gave no
other comparative figures. China's 1986 trade deficit totalled 12
billion dlrs, official figures show. REUTER 

U.S. SENATE LEADERS SEE NO TRADE WAR BREWING
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
The Senate's Democratic and Republican leaders praised President
Reagan for retaliating against Japan for violating a semiconducter
accord but dashed cold water on ideas it was the first shot in a trade
war. Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd and Republican leader Bob
Dole both told the Senate Reagan's decision was long overdue and urged
Japan to open its markets to U.S. goods and stop dumping on world
markets. Each noted in separate speeches that they saw no trade war
over the issue, despite concerns in financial markets. "That fear has
no basis in fact," Byrd said. Reuter 

FED'S HELLER SAYS HE WANTS TO SEE STRONGER JAPANESE DEMAND FOR AMERICAN GOODS




UK MAY REVOKE JAPANESE FINANCIAL LICENSES
    London, March 27 - 
The British government may revoke the licences of selected Japanese
banks and securities companies operating in London's financial City
when they come up for renewal next summer if progress is not made
towards opening up Japan's markets to foreign competition, government
sources said. "We can't say "yes, we are going to do it (revoke
licences)" but this is definitely being considered," an official said.
His comments came after the government was formally urged today by a
cross-section of influential MPs to take joint retaliatory action with
the United States against Japan. Britain has grown increasingly
impatient with Japanese trade practices. "There's a sense of urgency
here now, but the emphasis is on securing - not undermining - our
interests in Japan," another government official told Reuters. Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher said on Thursday that Britain would not
hesitate to use new powers contained in the Financial Services Act
1986 and the Banking Bill to retaliate against countries that do not
offer reciprocal market access. She clearly had Japan in mind,
government sources said. The U.K. Last year showed a trade defict with
Japan of 3.7 billion stg, official figures show. A parliamentary
motion, signed by 98 MPs, today urged the U.K. Government to
"coordinate action with the President of the United States, and
through the Department of Trade and Industry, to suspend all further
applications from Japanese communications companies for equipment
approval by the British Approvals Board for Telecommunications, and
all further applications from Japanese financial institutions for
licences" until authorities in Japan stopped imposing what the MPs
called "restrictive conditions" on the bid by (Cable and Wireless PLC)
(cawl.L) and its U.S. And Japanese partners for a stake in Japan's
international telecommunications market. The motion for retaliatory
steps came from a cross-section of MPs, reflecting the strength of
feeling inside Parliament. Parliamentarians said their action would
increase pressure on the Conservative government to take firm action.
Officials said another option now being considered by the U.K. Is to
refuse issuing new banking licences to Japanese institutions. That
could be done under the government's proposed Banking Bill now moving
through parliament. 58 Japanese financial institutions are authorised
to deal in London, of which 29 are banks. In Tokyo, 14 London-based
firms are authorised to do financial business, officials said. The new
financial services and banking acts offer Britain an alternative for
retaliation which would be otherwise denied under legally-binding
international trade agreements. "The Financial Services Act gives
(Trade and Industry Secretary Paul) Channon power to stop firms from
engaging in investment, banking and insurance," one official said.
"This point has been made to the Japanese at official level a number
times," the official added. Britain and France are now working
together to urge that the European Community take collective action
against Japan, but by working within EC treaties, another official
said. British Trade Minister Alan Clark said this week in a radio
interview that the European Community should build barriers against
Japanese imports through certification procedures similar to those
facing European exporters in Japan. "There comes a point where you
cannot resist any longer," he said, adding "(such barriers) can't be
put in place overnight." Clark said the issue of reciprocity regarding
visible trade "strikes at the basis of whether British industry is to
have a fair access to an extremely large market (Japan) which is
itself in a very dominant position (in) certain aspects of our own
domestic market ... It is really a question of fairness." The
situation is only likely to worsen following news that Japan's trade
surplus with the rest of the world rose by more than 70 pct in
February, year-on-year, to 8.14 billion dlrs from 5.7 billion in
January, political sources said. But Clark said in his interview that
the issues of visible trade and access to financial markets should be
kept separate. Should Britain decide to act against Japanese financial
institutions, it would most likely focus on the smaller, rather than
larger ones, to minimise any risks to its role as a global business
centre, government sources said. Japan's four largest securities
houses are members of the London Stock Exchange. In Washington, White
House officials said President Reagan was ready to impose retaliatory
trade action against Japan for breaking its semiconductor agreement
with the United States. There was no immediate indication when Reagan
might act on the recommendations of his Economic Policy Council to
curb Japanese exports to the United States but officials said the move
could come today or early next week. Trade sources said the actions
being weighed by Reagan included tariffs on a wide variety of Japanese
exports which use semiconductors. REUTER 

JAPAN WARNS OF ANTI-U.S. SENTIMENT IN TRADE ROW
    TOKYO, April 2 - 
Japan is sending a three-man team to Washington to try to halt
threatened trade sanctions that officials warn could spark a wave of
anti-U.S. Sentiment here. The team will lay the groundwork for high-
level emergency talks next week aimed at defusing an increasingly
bitter row over trade in computer microchips, officials said. "The
sanctions are against the free trade system," Ministry of
International Trade and Industry (MITI) director general Noboru
Hatakeyama told reporters, adding: "If these measures are taken, the
atmosphere in Japan against the United States would become not so good
as before." Other officials were more blunt. "The U.S. Action will
have a significant impact on the growing anti-U.S. Feeling (here),"
another MITI official said. A senior Foreign Ministry official, who
declined to be identified, told Reuters the U.S. Threats have undercut
those in the government who argue for conciliation. "There is a very
strong argument in Japan that since the United States is imposing
tariffs unilaterally, why should we bother doing anything," he said.
"Anything we do, we will be bashed." The senior official sounded
pessimistic about the likelihood of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone
defusing U.S. Anger over Japanese trade practices when he visits
Washington on April 29. "I don't think trade friction will be solved
all of a sudden (by the visit)," he said. Nakasone is widely expected
to present a package of measures to President Reagan to help contain
U.S. Frustration over Japan's large trade surplus. But the senior
official played down those expectations. REUTER 

JAPAN SAYS U.S.-JAPAN MICROCHIP PACT WORKING
    TOKYO, March 17 - 
Japanese officials sought to convince the U.S. That a U.S.-Japan pact
on microchip trade is working ahead of an April 1 deadline set by the
U.S. For them to prove their case. "We are implementing the agreement
in good faith and the situation does not run counter to the pact,"
Osamu Watanabe, Director of the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry's (MITI) Americas and Oceanic Division, told foreign
reporters. "The effects of the measures we have taken and are taking
are emerging in the market place," he said. U.S. Trade officials have
repeatedly accused Japanese microchip makers of violating the pact by
continuing to sell at below cost in markets outside Japan and the
United States. The agreement, signed last September, aimed at halting
predatory Japanese pricing policies and increasing U.S. Semiconductor
firms' access to the Japanese market. The comments by MITI officials
followed a call by Prime Minsiter Yasuhiro Nakasone to clear up any
misunderstandings on the U.S. Side about the pact, Watanabe said.
Yukio Honda, director of MITI's Industrial Electronics Division,
denied that Japanese chipmakers were selling at below cost in third
countries. MITI's call to Japanese chip makers last month to cut
production of key memory chips in the first quarter of this year has
begun to dry up the source of cheap chips for sale in the non-
regulated grey market, Honda said. "The grey market exports from Japan
are shrinking now, but in contrast U.S. And South Korean companies are
expanding market share because of their cheaper prices," Honda said.
MITI plans to take further steps to reduce the excess supply of
inexpensive chips which developed in Japan after the pact was formed
because of a slump in Japanese semiconductor exports to the United
States, he added. The ministry will soon release its supply-demand
guidelines for the second quarter and suggested production volumes are
likely to be lower than that for the first quarter, he said. Despite
businessmen's ingenuity in finding ways around any artificial
controls, regulation of supply and demand should bring positive
results, Watanabe said. "I am optimistic," he added. REUTER 

TREASURY'S BAKER OUTLINES TRADE BILL CRITICISMS
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said that some of the trade bills
proposed by Congress conflict significantly with certain basic
principles the Reagan administration considers critical. Baker told a
Senate committee that the administration would resist such measures as
a general import surcharge, sector-specific protection such as import
quotas for individual products, mandatory retaliation, and limits on
presidential discretion in negotiating more open markets abroad and
other trade steps. Reuter 

GATT SETS UP DISPUTE PANEL ON CANADIAN HERRING
    GENEVA, March 4 - 
The ruling GATT Council set up a formal dispute panel to examine a
U.S. Complaint that a Canadian law prohibiting export of unprocessed
herring and salmon was discriminatory. David Wood, official spokesman
of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), told a news
briefing the decision was taken after bilateral consultations failed
to resolve the row. U.S. Ambassador Michael Samuels charged during the
Council debate that Canada was trying to preserve domestic jobs by
insisting that herring and salmon be processed at home. Robert White,
Canada's deputy chief of delegation, replied the law was in line with
GATT rules, and was for conservations reasons. But he agreed to
setting up the dispute panel. Reuter 

TRADE SURPLUS CUT WOULD BENEFIT JAPAN - SUMITA
    TOKYO, March 26 - 
Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said it is in Japan's national
interest to make greater efforts to reduce its trade surplus. He told
business executives the most important issues for the world economy
are the correction of international trade imbalances and a solution to
the world debt problem. To this end, Japan and the U.S. Must make
medium- and long-term efforts to alter economic structures which have
expanded the trade gap between the two nations. World economic growth
and therefore an expansion of debtor countries' export markets are
needed to solve the debt issue, he added. REUTER 

FRANCE, YUGOSLAVIA COMMISSION TO BOOST TRADE
    PARIS, March 5 - 
France and Yugoslavia agreed to set up a joint economic commission as
part of efforts to promote commercial links and industrial cooperation
between the two countries. The French Finance Ministry said the
commission, to be composed of businessmen, was agreed during talks
between Foreign Trade Minister Michel Noir and Yugoslavian minister
without portfolio Egon Padovan. A ministry statement said both sides
had agreed on the need to boost trade links in keeping with an accord
signed last year calling for a 50 pct rise in commercial exchanges
between the two countries over the next six years. French trade with
Yugoslavia has grown little over the past two years. Reuter 

INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP
    NEW DELHI, March 27 - 
India is searching for non-communist countertrade partners to help it
cut its trade deficit and conserve foreign exchange. Wheat, tobacco,
tea, coffee, jute, engineering and electronic goods, as well as
minerals including iron ore, are all on offer in return for crude oil,
petroleum products, chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told
Reuters. Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in 1984,
comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading Corp (STC) and
the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC). "The two state trading
corporations are free to use their buying power in respect to bulk
commodities to promote Indian exports," a commerce ministry
spokeswoman said, adding that private firms are excluded from
countertrading. One trade source said India has targetted countries
that depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign
imports. However, countertrade deals still make up only a small part
of India's total trading and are likely to account for less than eight
pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade during the nine
months ended December, the sources said. Countertrade accounted for
just five pct of India's 25.65 billion dlrs in trade during fiscal
1985/86 ended March, against almost nothing in 1984/85, official
figures show. However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern
Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said. Total
trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of agricultural produce
and textiles for Soviet arms and crude oil, is estimated at 3.04
billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87, against three billion in 1985/86.
Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to help narrow the
country's large trade deficit, is still insignificant compared with
agreements reached by Indonesia, Venezuela and Brazil, the trade
sources said. The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96
billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billion in the
current fiscal year. But the push to include non-communist countries
in countertrade is also due to other factors, including the slow
growth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule, shrinking
aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said. One source said India
is showing more dynamism in promoting countertrade deals than in the
past, when the deals were made discreetly because they break GATT
rules. As a member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT), India cannot officially support bartering. The MMTC's recent
countertrade deals include iron ore exports to Yugoslavia for steel
structures and rails. "MMTC's recent global tenders now include a
clause that preference will be given to parties who accept payment in
kind for goods and services sold to India," a trade official said,
adding that the policy remains flexible. "We also take into account
other factors such as prices at which the goods and services are
offered to India," the trade official said. Early this year the
commerce ministry quietly told foreign companies interested in selling
aircraft, ships, drilling rigs and railway equipment to India that
they stood a better chance if they bought Indian goods or services in
return, the trade sources said. Illustrating the point, the official
said a South Korean firm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform
worth 40 mln dlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.
Reuter 

U.S. TREASURY ANNOUNCES OECD TIED-AID PACT
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said an agreement has been reached
by members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) to control the unfair trade practice of using tied
aid to promote trade. He said in a statement the agreement culminates
the Reagan administration's effot to negotiate a virtual end to export
credit subsidies. The practice of other governments using tied aid or
mixed credits to promote exports has cost the United States lost jobs
and lost exports, the Treasury said. The agreement to be implemented
in two stages by July, 1988 would ban tied aid credit among
industrialized countries and place limits on permitted aid by
developing countries. It would also reduce export credits that do not
involve aid and reduce credit subsidies permitted for relatively poor
countries, the Treasury said. Baker said the agreement imposes
particular sacrifices on Japan and praised Japan's willingness to
accept the pact as a demonstration of the Japanese government's
willingness to take concrete steps to resolve important trade issues.
Reuter 

JAPAN/U.S. WILL BE AT ODDS WHILE TRADE LOPSIDED
    TOKYO, April 2 - 
Japan is doing all it can to solve its trade problems with the United
States but the two nations will remain at odds as long as the trade
account is lopsided in Japan's favour, a senior official said. "So
long as there is an external imbalance there will be trade friction
and ...Harsh words between the two governments," the Foreign Ministry
official told reporters. Last year, Japan racked up a 51.5 billion dlr
surplus with the United States and economists said they do not see it
falling significantly any time soon. Washington announced plans last
week to slap up to 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on Japanese electronic
goods, raising the spectre of a trade war between the two countries.
"We take the current situation very seriously," said the official, who
declined to be identified. "The basic stance of the Japanese
government is to tackle the issues with all available resources." The
United States has accused Japan of reneging on an agreement that
called on it to stop selling cut-price computer microchips in world
markets and to try to import more American semiconductors. Tokyo has
denied the charges. The Foreign Ministry official refused to rule out
Japanese retaliation if America went ahead with its threatened tariffs
in the middle of this month. But he said that any response would be in
accordance with international law and Japan's international
obligations. He added that both Japan and the United States must take
account of the impact of their dispute on their own and the world
economy. REUTER 

U.S. TELLS JAPAN TO DO MORE TO CUT TRADE SURPLUS
    TOKYO, March 5 - 
U.S. Undersecretary of State for Economic Affairs Allen Wallis said he
had urged Japan to do much more to reduce its large trade surplus with
the United States. "Our central message to Japan this week was that
while we have made progress in some areas, much needs to be done," he
told a press conference after three days of talks. "What we need is a
resolution of trade issues, we need visible efforts to restructure the
economy to encourage more imports and we need greater domestic-led
growth." Forecasting sluggish economic growth in Japan this year,
Wallis urged Tokyo to stimulate domestic demand to help reduce its
trade surplus, which hit a record 83 billion dlrs in 1986. He named
several areas of particular concern to Washington -- computer
microchips, supercomputers, Kansai airport, agricultural products and
car telephones. He warned that the U.S./Japan agreement governing
trade in semiconductors was in jeopardy. Despite the pact, Japanese
producers are still dumping microchips in foreign markets other than
the United States while U.S. Penetration of the Japanese market has
not increased, he said. REUTER 

BAKER SEES 15 TO 20 BILLION DLR DROP IN TRADE GAP
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker said he expected the U.S. Trade deficit
to fall by 15 billion to 20 billion dlrs in 1987. Commenting on the
deficit during an interview on Cable News Network, Baker said "I think
you're going to see a 15 to 20 billion dlr reduction this year." The
deficit was 170 billion dlrs in 1986. Baker noted that the benefits of
a weaker currency take 12 to 18 months to affect the trade balance,
and said it is now 18 months since the Plaza agreement to lower the
dollar's value. REUTER 

YEUTTER SAYS STOCK MARKET OVERREACTED TO JAPAN TRADE DISPUTE




EC LINKS AGRICULTURAL TRADE TALKS TO OTHER REFORM
    SYDNEY, March 25 - 
The European Community (EC) considers talks on agricultural trade
reform to be inseperable from talks on other trade reform in the
present GATT round, Willy de Clercq, external relations commissioner
of the EC, said. He told reporters here the EC would not bow to
pressure to reach an early, seperate agreement on agricultural trade.
He said the EC wanted to stick to the four-year schedule agreed by
members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Punta
del Este, Uruguay, last year. That included agricultural trade
liberalisation for the first time in the lengthy program to re-
negotiate the GATT. Other trade issues being discussed in the current
GATT round include reform of trade in merchandise and services. De
Clercq is on his way to China after attending a two-day conference for
22 GATT trade ministers held in New Zealand. Several of those
ministers criticised the EC for what they saw as restrictive
agricultural trade practices and called for urgent reforms. U.S. Trade
representative, Clayton Yeutter, also said it was important agreement
on agricultural trade reform was reached as early as possible. But de
Clercq said the GATT program had been reached after long and hard
negotiations, and the EC did not want changes. "We just want to stick
to the agreement which was reached, and that was very clear -- that
the new round would be one undertaking. It is a global negotiation
with no two tracks, no fast track, no slow track. It has just one
track, the track - and that's all," de Clercq said. "If you start
selecting priorities, your priority is not my priority. We say that
agriculture is urgent, but it's not the only urgent thing," he said.
He said the Punte del Este agreement had taken eight months to prepare
and eight days of negotiations. REUTER 

BELGOLUX TRADE MOVES INTO SURPLUS IN 1986
    BRUSSELS, March 5 - 
The Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) moved into a narrow trade
surplus of 4.7 billion francs in 1986 after a 140.4 billion franc
deficit in 1985, figures given by a spokesman for the National
Statistics Institute show. He said imports fell last year to 3,061.8
billion francs from 3,304.1 in 1985 while exports were also lower at
3,066.6 billion francs against 3,163.7 billion. In December, the BLEU
had an 11.9 billion franc trade surplus after a 10.9 billion franc
surplus in November and a 2.3 billion franc surplus in December 1985.
REUTER 

AMSTUTZ SAYS FARM TRADE ACCORD POSSIBLE IN 1988
    WASHINGTON, MARCH 23 - 
U.S. Agriculture undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said it is possible to
reach a global agreement to scale-back agricultural supports in
calendar 1988. Speaking to a Senate Agriculture Appropriations
committee hearing, Amstutz said "I think we can reach agreement in
calendar 1988." Amstutz said the U.S. places a high priority on the
Uruguay round of global trade talks. His comments followed a statement
by Secretary of State George Shultz last week urging agriculture be
the highest priority item during the upcoming summit of western heads
of state in Venice, Italy. Reuter 

EC CONCERNED OVER U.S. TEXTILE IMPORT MOVES
    BRUSSELS, March 11 - 
The European Community (EC) expressed disquiet over protectionist
moves in the United States to limit imports of textiles and said it
would retaliate immediately if EC exports were hit. A spokeswoman for
the EC Commission said EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq
had written to his U.S. Counterpart, special U.S. Trade Representative
Clayton Yeutter, outlining the concerns of the 12-nation Community.
The draft legislation under consideration by Congress would impose
permanent quotas on products entering the U.S. and seek to limit any
increase to a growth in the overall trade. Reuter 

CONSENSUS BUILDS FOR WORLD AGRICULTURAL REFORM
    PARIS, March 5 - 
Top U.S. and European farm trade and government representatives called
for a sweeping reform of world agriculture to redress a critical
demand and supply imbalance. Speakers at a conference on world
agricultural markets here demonstrated a growing U.S.-European
consensus on the need for an urgent and collective overhaul of world
farm trade and production. "It is vital that we work together to bring
more freedom and harmony into the world agricultural trade...(if not)
the disruptions in markets may grow even more severe, the walls of
protection climb higher and the level of possible retaliation become
more harmful," U.S. Department of Agriculture Deputy Administrator
William Bailey said. Bailey said his attendance at the two-day
meeting, which ends tomorrow, demonstrated the U.S. recognises the
need to adjust its policies to the changing market environment. The
need for urgent reforms is justified by the "imbalance and tensions of
the world economy," the secretary general of the Organisation for
Economic Cooperation and Development Jean-Claude Paye said. And the
forum for such a reform is the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,
he noted. Paye stressed the need for a progressive and joint reduction
of agricultural subsidies as well as social measures to help farmers
in unprofitable areas. Another possible solution would be to stop
supporting farm prices, allowing them to be fixed by supply and
demand, and instead help farmers through income support and adjustment
aids, proposed James Howard, Executive Vice-president of Cargill
(USA), one of the world's largest cereal houses. Franz-Josef Feiter,
agricultural adviser to West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, agreed the
European Community must take greater heed of market constraints in
fixing farm prices. However, "differentiated policy treatment is
required" to take account of large disparities in the situation around
the EC, he said. "Agriculture is an efficient sector of the European
economy and will remain so if the right policy is pursued within the
Community," he said. Reuter 

GATT SUCCESS WILL TAKE PRESSURE, N.Z. MINISTER
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - 
Long term pressure by trade ministers is necessary if the current
Uruguay round of talks on the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
(GATT) is to succeed, New Zealand's Overseas Trade minister Mike Moore
said. Moore told the opening meeting of trade ministers from 22
nations gathered for informal talks on the GATT that ministers "need
opportunities to keep in touch and to consider how the political
problems inherent in an exercise like this one can be faced and
resolved." Moore said the Taupo meeting is one of a series of such
international gatherings, which includes the OECD ministerial meeting
in May and the G-7 meeting in Venice in June, enabling ministers to
maintain contact. World trade conditions are getting better not worse,
he said. He said New Zealand is "moving rapidly and of our own
initiative in the direction of liberalisation, and I warn you we shall
be looking for partners." REUTER 

SWISS FEB TRADE DEFICIT 629.7 MLN FRANCS (JAN DEFICIT 209.4 MLN) - OFFICIAL




BALDRIGE CONCERNED ABOUT KOREAN/TAIWAN DEFICITS
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
Secretary of Commerce Malcolm Baldrige expressed concern about the
continuing U.S. trade deficits with South Korea and Taiwan and said
that without an adjustment in exchange rates there is little
likelihood of improvement. Speaking to the President's Export Council,
an industry advisory group, Baldrige said the trade deficit issue was
under discussion with those countries. "I feel that unless we see an
exchange rate adjustment we probably won't be able to see much of a
change in the large surplus that Taiwan in particular has with us," he
said. In a wide-ranging discussion on U.S. trade matters, Baldrige
also repeated U.S. concern about an attempted takeover by Japan's
Fujitsu company of Fairchild Computer. He said that the Japanese were
resisting allowing U.S. companies into the giant computer business
while at the same time attempting to acquire control of a U.S. company
that does major computer business in the U.S. market. Lastly, Baldrige
said that the United States was hopeful that it could complete a free
market agreement with Canada by the autumn, but said major issues,
including acid rain, remained unresolved. Reuter 

TRADE WAR FEARS MAY PROMPT STOCK MARKETS' DOWNTURN
    LONDON, March 31 - 
The threatened trade war between the United States and Japan is just
the kind of shock that economists say could send world stock markets
into a tailspin. But they are not so sure if that would be a brief
corrective dip, or whether this week's falling share prices mark the
start of a "bear" market. "It's the billion dollar question," said
Richard O'Brien, economist at American Express International Bank in
London. Japan's trade surplus -- 92.7 billion dlrs last year -- has
poured into share and bond markets around the world, and funded a good
chunk of the huge U.S. Budget deficit. Around a third of any new sale
of U.S. Treasury bonds has been bought by the Japanese. However,
Japanese investors have lost money as the dollar falls and will lose
more if the United States lets it fall further to cut the trade
deficit. The counterpart of improving the trade deficit either through
a lower dollar or because the U.S. Increases duties on Japanese
electronic goods, may be to hit the capital inflow which has financed
the budget deficit. And if the U.S. Trade deficit does fall, the
Japanese will have less money to invest. To entice U.S. Investors to
fill the gap that would be left if the Japanese stopped buying U.S.
Bonds, interest rates would have to soar, O'Brien said. The subsequent
shift from shares to bonds could cause major falls on the world stock
markets. "A year ago, we could be pretty confident about the markets,"
said O'Brien. "Now, it is much less certain." Buoyant share prices are
supposed to reflect a booming economy. But the world economy, with
sluggish growth at best in the industrial nations, a massive load of
Third World debt and huge trade imbalances is not in good shape, said
O'Brien. Nevertheless, New York analyst William Raferty, of Smith
Barney Harris Upham said "We're still in a bull market," adding that
corrections are a normal part of a rising market and "The bear usually
strikes slowly." Economist Evelyn Brody, at Morgan Grenfell and Co in
London, said the huge sums of money going through the world financial
system will keep a floor under share and bond prices. Although
interest by the Japanese in putting their money in non-dollar
denominated bonds and stocks has increased it's very difficult to see
where else they can put their money than in U.S. Dollars and
especially the U.S. Treasury (bond) market, according to David
Butcher, a senior executive at Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd's bond
operation in London. He said the Japanese are paying much closer
attention now to the French franc and West German mark. In the longer
run, he worries about what trade tensions and the dollar's slide will
mean for securities markets. REUTER 

SENATE WANTS JAPAN SEMICONDUCTER PACT ENFORCED
    WASHINGTON, March 19 - 
The U.S. Senate has unanimously called for President Reagan
immediately to force Japan to live up to a pledge to stop dumping its
microchips and open its markets to U.S. Chipmakers. The Senate voted
93 to 0 to urge Reagan to impose penalties on Japanese high-technology
products containing semiconductors in retaliation for what it sees as
Japan's violations of the semiconductor pact. While the measure does
not bind Reagan to any action, Senate leaders said its adoption would
warn Japan stiffer legislation would be considered if the violations
continue. "We want to send a message to Japan to let it know how the
Senate feels about this matter," Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd
told the Senate. Senate Finance Committee chairman Lloyd Bentsen told
the Senate the measure was not aimed at retaliation but at correcting
Japan's unfair trade practices. A key House trade lawmaker,
Representative Richard Gephardt also announced he would seek to force
Japan and other countries with huge trade surpluses to slash their
surplus by 10 pct a year for three years. REUTER 

U.S. WINE EXPORTS ROSE 15 PER CENT LAST YEAR
    SAN FRANCISCO, March 3 - 
Exports of American wine rose 14.9 per cent last year to a total of
7.2 million gallons, the Wine Institute said. The San Francisco-based
promotional group said 95 per cent of the exported wine was from
California and the top three markets were Canada, Japan and Britain.
Japan, which edged out Britain as the leading importer of American
wines in 1985, continued in second place. Canadian imports rose 3.2
per cent to 2.6 million gallons; Japan, 9.9 per cent to 1.2 million
gallons, and Britain, 20.2 per cent to 962,360 gallons. A spokesman
for the institute said the declining value of the dollar and strong
promotional efforts on the part of the California wine industry
contributed significantly to the increased shipments. The 1986 wine
exports were valued at 34.7 mln dlrs, up from 27.6 mln dlrs the
previous year. Reuter 

TAIWAN PLANS MISSION TO CLOSE TRADE GAP WITH U.S.
    TAIPEI, March 20 - 
Taiwan's leading industrial organisation said it will send its first
buying mission to the U.S. Later this year in an effort to reduce the
country's trade surplus with Washington. A spokesman for the Chinese
National Federation of Industries told Reuters the mission was part of
a broader plan to switch large purchases to the U.S. From Japan. The
Federation groups all of Taiwan's major industrial associations. Last
year its members purchased about 4.5 billion U.S. Dlrs worth of
industrial products from Japan and about 1.8 billion from the U.S. The
spokesman said Federation members were now discussing the volume of
business they could transfer to America. He said they had drawn up a
list of about 80 industrial products they would be shopping for in the
U.S. During the buying mission in September, but he could give no
figure on how much would be spent. A Board of Foreign Trade official
told Reuters the government would send two buying missions to America
between June and July this year and might send others later. Taiwan's
trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to a record 13.6 billion dlrs last
year from 10.2 billion in 1985. REUTER 

YEUTTER CONCERNED ABOUT U.S. EXPORT PICTURE
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he expects imports to
fall soon but he was concerned about the lack of improvement in U.S.
exports given the dollar's decline in the last 18 months. "I'm
convinced we're about to see an improvement on the import side. I'm
more concerned about the export side," he told a House Appropriations
subcommittee. Part of the blame goes on other countries which have not
generated the economic growth to increase demand for U.S. goods and
part to some U.S. companies which are not generating competitive
exports, he said. Reuter 

EC APPOINTS NEW TRADE CHIEF
    BRUSSELS, March 4 - 
The European Community Commission today appointed its chief spokesman,
Hugo Paemen, as its top official in charge of multilateral trade
negotiations, a Commission spokesman said. Paemen, a Belgian official
who had previously been chief aide to former External Affairs
Commissioner Etienne Davignon, has been in his post since January
1985. The spokesman said Paemen will continue as chief spokesman until
the retirement on May 1 of Paul Luyten, who is now in charge of EC
departments handling negotiations in the world trade body GATT, the
OECD and other forums. Reuter 

S.KOREA SAYS JAPAN COMPLAINS TO GATT ON TRADE PLAN
    SEOUL, March 17 - 
Japan has complained to the secretariat of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) that South Korea's five-year plan to cut its
trade deficit with Japan breaks GATT rules, Trade Ministry officials
here said. They said Japan submitted a report earlier this month
alleging South Korea's plan to import less from Japan and more from
the U.S. And elsewhere was tantamount to creating non-tariff trade
barriers. South Korea unveiled the plan in November. It said it hoped
to narrow its trade deficit with Japan to two billion dlrs by 1991.
South Korea's trade deficit with Japan was a record 5.45 billion dlrs
in 1986, and rose to 752 mln dlrs in the first two months of 1987 from
727 mln in the same 1986 period. The plan envisages giving incentives
to importers not to import Japanese goods, and to exporters to sell
more to Japan. The officials said they believed the Japanese action,
one step short of filing a suit, was designed to bring South Korea to
the negotiating table and stop the plan. The Seoul government wants
Tokyo to ease various import restrictions and simplify customs
inspections for South Korean goods to help reduce the trade deficit.
REUTER 

CANADA VOWS TO FIGHT U.S. POTASH ACTION
    OTTAWA, March 24 - 
External Affairs Minister Joe Clark today vowed to do everything
possible to fight the U.S. action against Canadian potash exports, but
also warned against raising the alarm too early in the dispute. In the
latest flashpoint in Canadian-U.S. trade relations, the U.S.
International Trade Commission ruled unanimously Monday that Canadian
potash shipments valued at 270 million U.S. dlrs last year were
injuring the U.S. industry. "We certainly intend to do everything we
can to insure that Canadian interests are well protected," Clark told
the House of Commons in the daily question period. But he said the
opposition parties should be careful "not to raise false alarms too
early." The case now goes before the U.S. Commerce Department's trade
division to determine if a duty should be imposed. Potash producers
from New Mexico, claiming unfair government subsidies, are seeking a
43 pct tariff on Canada's shipments. Canada, the world's largest
potash producer, exported 9.8 mln metric tonnes of potash last year,
with nearly a third going to the U.S. Most of the potash, used in the
production of fertilizer, comes from provincially owned mines in
Saskatchewan. In the Commons, Liberal member Lloyd Axworthy branded
the ruling as just another "trade harrassment" from the U.S. and
criticized Clark's assurances the country's interests would be
protected. "We received exactly the same kind of assurances in the
softwood lumber case that was totally fumbled and bumbled," Axworthy
said. Canada's Progressive Conservative government agreed to impose a
15 pct duty on its softwood lumber exports earlier this year to end a
long and bitter bilateral trade dispute with the U.S. Axworthy urged
the government to present Canada's case to world trade authorities
under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. But Clark maintained
the potash dispute was another example of why Canada needs to find a
new way to settle bilateral irritants in the free trade negotiations
under way with the U.S. "What we are seeking to do is put in place a
better system," Clark said. Meanwhile, Saskatchewan Trade Minister Bob
Andrew expressed confidence Canada would win its case, claiming the
problem stems from low international commodity prices and not
government subsidies. "The reality of the problem and the injury is
caused worldwide," he said. "It's caused by a downturn in the
commodity price for fertilizer, whether it's potash fertilizer,
nitrogen fertilizer or whatever." Reuter 

KEY U.S. HOUSE TRADE SUBCOMMITTEE APPROVES BILL TO TOUGHEN U.S. TRADE LAWS




EC WARNS U.S. AND JAPAN ON TRADE TENSIONS
    BRUSSELS, March 16 - 
The European Community (EC) delivered warnings to both Japan and the
United States over trade frictions which have hit relations between
the Community and its main trading partners. EC foreign ministers
meeting here issued a statement deploring Japan's continued trade
imbalance and appealed for greater effort by the country to open its
markets. Ministers also issued a statement saying they were disturbed
by moves in the U.S. to limit imports of textiles and warned that the
Community would react to any such moves. EC External Trade
Commissioner, Willy De Clercq has already written to his U.S.
counterpart, special U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter,
outlining the EC's concerns. The ministers' said they were "very
disturbed" by the U.S. moves, adding, "the adoption of such measures
would not fail to have a negative effect on the process of
multilateral negotiations just started as well as on bilateral
relations." Any unilateral U.S. moves would leave the EC no option but
to react according to the laws of the world trade body, the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), they said. In a separate
statement on Japan, the EC ministers said they "deplore the continued
aggravation of the imbalance in trade ... (and) expect Japan to open
up its market more." The statement added that the EC continued to
insist that the Japanese government must boost imports and stimulate
demand. Ministers also called on the European Commission to prepare a
report on U.S.-Japanese trade for July this year to enable them to
take action where necessary. One diplomat said the call for a report
showed ministers were determined not to let the Japanese question
drop. "It wil be back on the table again and again," the diplomat
said. De Clercq told journalists, "There is a certain nervousness, a
growing impatience within the Community on trade relations with
Japan." But diplomats said the Community is keen to continue talking
with Tokyo to try and solve the problem rather than embark on a costly
and damaging trade war. Reuter 

TAIWAN PROPOSES FURTHER TARIFF CUTS
    TAIPEI, March 24 - 
Taiwan said it plans another round of tariff cuts, possibly within a
month, to try to narrow its trade surplus with the U.S. Vice Finance
Minister Ronald Ho said a high-level economic committee recommended
tariff cuts on 66 products requested by Washington, including apples,
chocolates and fruit juice. Ho said the cuts may come into effect by
the end of next month. Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Widened in
the first two months of this year to 2.35 billion dlrs from 1.87
billion dlrs in the same period last year. REUTER 

U.S. CALLS FOR GREATER GATT CHECKS ON TRADE
    GENEVA, April 7 - 
The United States has appealed for stronger powers for the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) to enforce world trade rules.
The call by U.S. Deputy Trade Representative Michael Smith at a
special committee meeting into the future of GATT follows a series of
bilateral trade rows which have clouded efforts by the 93-nation body
to promote fair trade. Today's meeting was part of the Uruguay trade
round launched by ministers last September. The round, which covers 13
areas of trade in agriculture, manufactured goods and services will
take four years to negotiate. Smith called for boosting GATT's links
with financial institutions such as the International Monetary Fund
and World Bank. He also urged greater involvement of trade ministers
to ensure the success of the Uruguay Round. "The GATT as an
institution needs to be strengthened to assure that the GATT plays its
proper role in management of the world trading system and the global
economy," Smith said. "Rules can and will be ignored if the
institution is weak, or perceived as unable to adapt to the changing
world economy." He also also urged that member states be accountable
to each other for their trade policies. Smith, who flies to Brussels
today for talks with European Community (EC) officials, told Reuters
the committee wanted to stress GATT's importance and did not discuss
specifics. "We are interested in more periodic ministerial
involvement...Whether in formal or informal meetings," he said. GATT's
ruling council is due to hear a complaint from the 12-nation EC on
April 15 about the U.S.-Japanese accord on semiconductors. The EC
charges the accord breached GATT trade rules by allowing Tokyo to set
minimum prices for Japanese chips sold in third countries and is
requesting a GATT dispute panel be set up to review the agreement.
President Reagan, who strongly supported the Uruguay trade round to
promote freer trade, has said Washington will impose tariffs against
Japanese electronic goods. He said Tokyo had not shown willingness to
open its markets to U.S. Exports. REUTER 

SWEDEN TO GO AHEAD WITH S. AFRICAN TRADE SANCTIONS
    STOCKHOLM, March 2 - 
Sweden's ruling Social Democratic Party gave full power to the
government to decree unilateral trade sanctions against South Africa,
Prime Minister Ingvar Calrsson said. Carlsson told a news conference
the party decided the fight against apartheid took priority over
Sweden's traditional policy of only adopting sanctions with the
backing of the U.N. Security Council. The government will decide later
what form the trade boycott will take and when it will come into
force. REUTER 

EC APPROVES MEDITERRANEAN FINANCIAL PACKAGES
    BRUSSELS, March 31 - 
EC ministers have approved financial packages for several
Mediterranean states totalling 1.6 billion European currency units, an
EC official said. The packages, part of special EC trade agreements
with Tunisia, Egypt, Lebanon, Israel, Algeria, Morocco and Jordan
until 1992, include 615 mln Ecus in grants, he said. They include one
billion Ecus in loans from the European Investment Bank, the EC long-
term financing arm. The framework for the transfers was signed
yesterday by EC farm ministers after being agreed in principle by
foreign ministers earlier. Reuter 

GERMAN FEBRUARY IMPORT PRICES FALL
    WIESBADEN, March 24 - 
Import prices in West Germany fell 0.7 pct in February from January to
stand 15.6 pct below their level in February 1986, the Federal
Statistics Office said. In January the import price index, base 1980,
was unchanged compared with December but 17.8 pct lower against
January 1986. February export prices, same base as import prices, were
unchanged compared with January and 2.5 pct lower than in February
1986. In January export prices fell 0.3 pct against December to stand
3.0 pct lower than in January 1986. REUTER 

NAKASONE INTERVENES IN MICROCHIP DISPUTE WITH U.S.
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone intervened to try to resolve Japan's
escalating dispute with the U.S. Over semiconductor trade, government
officials said. At today's Cabinet meeting, Nakasone told Trade and
Industry Minister Hajime Tamura to redouble his efforts to calm U.S.
Anger over what it sees as Japan's unfair trade practices in
semiconductors. Nakasone intervened only two days before a scheduled
meeting of the Reagan administration's Economic Policy Council to
consider whether Japan is reneging on its microchip pact with the U.S.
That pact, agreed last year after months of negotiations, calls on
Japan to stop selling cut-price chips in world markets and to raise
its imports of U.S. Semiconductors. Senior U.S. Officials have accused
Tokyo of failing to live up to the accord and have threatened
retaliatory action. Yesterday, Tamura's Ministry of International
Trade and Industry (MITI) launched a last-ditch attempt to salvage the
pact by writing letters to U.S. Policy makers setting out Japan's case
and telling Japanese chip makers to cut output. In his letter, the
contents of which were released today, Tamura said a MITI survey
carried out at the beginning of March showed Japanese producers were
not selling at cut-rate prices in Asian markets. In a separate letter
sent to senior U.S. Officials, MITI vice minister for international
affairs Makoto Kuroda suggested the two countries could conduct a
joint investigation into allegations of Japanese chip dumping in such
markets. REUTER 

U.S. ASKS JAPAN END AGRICULTURE IMPORT CONTROLS
    TOKYO, March 3 - 
The U.S. Wants Japan to eliminate import controls on agricultural
products within three years, visiting U.S. Under-Secretary of State
for Economic Affairs Allen Wallis told Eishiro Saito, Chairman of the
Federation of Economic Organisations (Keidanren), a spokesman for
Keidanren said. The spokesman quoted Wallis as saying drastic measures
would be needed to stave off protectionist legislation by Congress.
Wallis, who is attending a sub-cabinet-level bilateral trade meeting,
made the remark yesterday in talks with Saito. Wallis was quoted as
saying the Reagan Administration wants Japanese cooperation so the
White House can ensure any U.S. Trade bill is a moderate one, rather
than containing retaliatory measures or antagonising any particular
country. He was also quoted as saying the U.S. Would be pleased were
Japan to halve restrictions on agricultural imports within five years
if the country cannot cope with abolition within three, the spokesman
said. Japan currently restricts imports of 22 agricultural products. A
ban on rice imports triggered recent U.S. Complaints about Japan's
agricultural policy. Reuter 

EC MUST EXPLAIN FARM POLICY TO U.S., FRANCE SAYS
    PARIS, April 2 - 
The U.S. and the European Community could enter into a new trade
dispute unless urgent action is taken to explain EC farm policy to the
U.S. Congress, French official sources said. They said Prime Minister
Jacques Chirac planned to urge EC Commission president Jacques Delors
to send a team of experts to Washington as soon as possible. Chirac
returned to Paris this morning after three days of talks in New York
and Washington in which trade and protectionism featured prominently.
At the centre of the new trade tension is an EC Commission proposal to
tax vegetable oils, the sources said. Reuter 

UNIONIST URGES RETALIATION AGAINST JAPAN
    WASHINGTON, March 24 - 
William Bywater, president of the International Union of Electronic
Workers, called on President Reagan to retaliate against Japan for
unfair practices in semiconductor trade. He said in a statement a
crash program was needed in the semiconductor industry to prevent the
United States from becoming "one of the world's industrial
lightweights." Bywater's remarks came as the White House Economic
Policy Council prepared for a Thursday meeting to decide what
sanctions if any should be taken against Japan for alleged violations
of a U.S.-Japanese semiconductors agreement. The pact, agreed to last
July, called for Tokyo to end selling semiconductors at below cost and
to open its home market to U.S. goods. In return, Washington agreed to
forego antidumping duties on Japanese semiconductors. But U.S.
officials have said that while Japan has stopped dumping in the U.S.
market, it has not ended third country dumping; nor has it opened its
market to U.S. semiconductors. Japan yesterday, in an effort to ward
off U.S. action, ordered a cutback in semiconductors production as a
way to force prices up and end the dumping. Bywater, in his statement,
said he backed a Defense Science Board task force proposal to set up a
consortium to develop new electronic products and manufacturing
processes and make the U.S. industory more competitive. But he added
the industry could not wait for legislation to pass and that action
was required now to help the depressed electronic industry. Bywater
said, "I urge the Reagan Administration to take full and severe action
immediately against Japan by invoking the retaliatory steps that are
permitted under U.S. law and GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade)." Reuter 

JAPAN MARCH INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS FALLS
    TOKYO, March 19 - 
Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus fell to 1.89 billion dlrs in the
first 10 days of March from a 1.91 billion surplus a year earlier, the
Ministry of Finance said. The March interim surplus compared with a
1.70 billion dlr surplus in the same February period. FOB exports in
the first 10 days of March rose 5.8 pct from a year earlier to 5.50
billion dlrs and CIF imports rose 9.7 pct to 3.61 billion. The average
yen/dollar rate used for the statistics was 153.67 yen against 181.23
a year earlier. REUTER 

TAIWAN TRADE SURPLUS WIDENS IN FIRST QUARTER
    TAIPEI, April 7 - 
Taiwan's trade surplus widened to 4.18 billion U.S. Dlrs in the first
quarter of 1987 from 3.05 billion a year ago, the government
statistics department said. First quarter exports rose to 11.25
billion U.S. Dlrs from 8.38 billion in the same period in 1986.
Imports rose to 7.08 billion from 5.33 billion last year. The March
trade surplus was 1.45 billion dlrs compared with 1.32 billion in
February and 1.02 billion in March 1986. Exports rose to 4.07 billion
U.S. Dlrs from 3.85 billion in February and 2.99 billion in March last
year. Imports were 2.61 billion dlrs against 2.53 billion in February
and 1.96 billion in March 1986. REUTER 

SWEDISH PRIME MINISTER'S CHINA VISIT BOOSTS TRADE
    PEKING, April 3 - 
An big expansion in bilateral trade is expected as a result of Swedish
Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson's visit to China, a official of China's
Foreign Economic Relations and Trade Ministry official said. He told
the China Daily that petroleum, coal, cotton, non-ferrous metals and
electric engines could help balance the trade running at over three-
to-one in Sweden's favour. Total trade reached 290 mln dlrs last year,
up 32 pct on 1985, according to Chinese statistics. Swedish sources
said major paper mill projects and an aviation agreement would be
discussed during Carlsson's one week visit. REUTER 

TALKS SHOW NEW CANADIAN CONFIDENCE, GROUP SAYS
    WASHINGTON, March 2 - 
Canada's decision to raise the issue of a free trade pact with the
U.S. was a sign of what many see as a new spirit of Canadian self-
confidence, a public policy study group said "It suggests the Canada
of the immediate post-war period, when it was a major player in the
process of building a postwar world," the Washington-based Atlantic
Council said. U.S. and Canadian negotiators opened talks last summer
aimed at dismantling trade barriers between the two countries, the
world's biggest trading partners with crossborder shipments of about
150 billion dlrs annually. The council's study said the trade talks,
with a deadline of October for an agreement, are the biggest issue in
U.S.-Canadian relations. The study said liberalized trade between the
two countries would improve the competitiveness of their economies in
world markets and lessen trade irritants which now mar their ties. The
council said "in the past most Canadians have shied away from the
notion of a free-trade arrangement, fearing to be overwhelmed
economically and politically by a closer association with a country 10
times their size in population." But at the same time, it added,
Canadians realized their domestic market was too small to permit the
mass production and sales needed to raise productivity to the level
demanded by an increasingly competitive world. The council said that
in the talks, Canada is chiefly interested in minimizing the imposing
of U.S. duties against allegedly subsidized exports. A recent example
was the 15 per cent duty the U.S. imposed on Canadian lumber exports
on grounds the shipments were being subsidized. The council said the
chief U.S. concerns included ending curbs against U.S. banking,
insurance, telecommunications, and the so-called "cultural industries"
- publishing, broadcasting and films. It said other major
U.S.-Canadian issues were defense cooperation, "acid rain" and the
U.S. rejection of a Canadian assertion of sovereignty over waters of
the Northwest Passage. Reuter 

U.S. CHIPMAKERS URGE SANCTIONS AGAINST JAPAN
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
The Semiconductor Industry Association urged the U.S. government to
impose trade sanctions against Japan for violating the U.S.-Japan
Semiconductor Trade Agreement. In a letter to Treasury Secretary James
Baker the group said sanctions should be imposed against Japanese
chipmakers as of April 1 and should continue until the United States
is satisfied that there is full compliance with the agreement. The
group said action by Japan to cut back on semiconductor exports is not
what is required. "America's interests require that agreements be
honored and that U.S. industries not bear the burden for the
persistent unwillingness or inability of the government of Japan to
deliver on its commitments," the trade group said. The White House
Economic Policy Council is expected to discuss possible sanctions
against Japan at a meeting scheduled for Thursday. The trade group
said Japan has not lived up to the terms of the agreement last year
which was aimed at ending Japanese dumping of semiconductors and at
opening Japanese markets to foreign-based manufacturers. Reuter 

YEUTTER SAYS U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DIFFICULTIES REMAIN
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he was unsure whether
some of the trade issues straining U.S.-Japanese relations would be
resolved before the two countries open trade talks in late April. "We
are having high level discussions on them (the issues) within the
United States...The relationship on some of those is very strained
between us (Japan) at the moment and we need to relieve those strains
at the earliest possible date," he said. "I am not sure we can wait
until late April," he added. Yeutter is in New Zealand for a two-day
informal meeting of trade ministers who are reviewing the Uruguay
round of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT). He said he
will meet the Japanese delegation over the next few days but declined
to discuss methods of relieving the strain between the two countries.
Yeutter said earlier the three most contentious trade issues were
semiconductors, Japanese government unwillingness to allow public
entities to buy U.S. Super-computers and the barring of U.S. Firms
from the eight billion U.S. Dlr Kansai airport project near Osaka. The
Japanese delegation to the GATT talks said in a statement yesterday
they are making major efforts to dismantle trade barriers in their
country. "I am convinced that they are attempting to move their
policies in the right direction. The question is how far and how
fast," Yeutter said. REUTER 

CHINA TO TIGHTEN IMPORT CONTROL, CUT EXPORT COSTS
    PEKING, March 25 - 
China should tighten imports of ordinary goods and restrict or even
forbid import of goods which can be made domestically, Premier Zhao
Ziyang said. He told the National People's Congress, China's
parliament, that the country's foreign exchange is limited and must be
used where it is most needed. "We should expand production of import
substitutes and increase their proportion," he said. On exports, China
should increase its proportion of manufactured goods, especially
textiles, light industrial goods, electronics and machinery, he said.
Zhao said China should lower the cost of exports and control the
export of goods that incur too much loss. In 1986 China had a trade
deficit of 11.9 billion dlrs, down from a record 14 billion in 1985.
Zhao said China should work to provide a more favourable investment
environment for foreign businessmen. It should use foreign funds for
production and construction, with stress on firms making goods for
export or import substitutes. China should also earn more foreign
exchange from tourists and contracted labour abroad, he added. REUTER


TRADE SURPLUS CUT WOULD BENEFIT JAPAN - SUMITA
    TOKYO, March 26 - 
Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said it is in Japan's national
interest to make greater efforts to reduce its trade surplus. He told
business executives the most important issues for the world economy
are the correction of international trade imbalances and a solution to
the world debt problem. To this end, Japan and the U.S. Must make
medium- and long-term efforts to alter economic structures which have
expanded the trade gap between the two nations. World economic growth
and therefore an expansion of debtor countries' export markets are
needed to solve the debt issue, he added. REUTER 

SOVIET ECONOMIST SEES FEW GAINS IN U.S. TRADE
    NEW YORK, March 11 - 
There is little chance Soviet exports to the United States will rise
in 1987, but Moscow's current trade reforms should result in more
trade in manufactured goods in future, a Soviet economist said. Sergey
Frolov, chief economist at Amtorg Trading Corp, an agent for Soviet
trade organisations and industries, told a U.S.-USSR business meeting
the Soviet Union produces few items that western nations want. But
reforms, including upgrading the quality of goods and allowing joint
ventures with foreign firms, will encourage modest export gains in
future. Frolov said the Soviet Union exported 500 mln dlrs worth of
goods to the United States in 1986 and imported 1.5 billion dlrs
worth. He gave no trade forecast for 1987. But he said that even if
all obstacles were removed, total trade between the two countries
would remain between two and three billion dlrs a year. "The post-
detente embargoes have taught the USSR to limit its trading with the
U.S.," he said. REUTER 

BELGOLUX TRADE SWINGS INTO JANUARY DEFICIT
    BRUSSELS, March 25 - 
The Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union recorded a provisional trade
deficit of 9.45 billion francs in January after a December surplus of
15.32 billion francs, revised upwards from a provisional surplus of
11.94 billion, the National Statistics Office said. In January 1986,
the union recorded a deficit of 23.31 billion francs. January imports
fell to a provisional 228.86 billion francs from 240.24 billion in
December and 281.65 billion a year earlier, but exports were also
lower, at 219.41 billion francs against 255.56 billion and 258.34
billion respectively. REUTER 

VOLCKER SAYS REDUCING U.S. BUDGET DEFICIT NEEDED TO IMPROVE TRADE BALANCE




CHINA, TAIWAN TRADE VIA HONG KONG FELL IN 1986
    HONG KONG, March 19 - 
The value of trade between China and Taiwan via Hong Kong fell 13 pct
to 7.45 billion H.K. Dlrs in 1986 from 8.59 billion dlrs in 1985, Hong
Kong's Census and Statistics Department said. Taiwan's exports to
China through Hong Kong fell to 6.33 billion dlrs last year from 7.69
billion in 1985, while China's exports rose to 1.12 billion dlrs from
904 mln dlrs. Economists in Hong Kong told Reuters that China's
controls on scarce foreign currency hurt its imports of Taiwanese
consumer goods, such as electric fans and television sets. Herbal
medicine and textiles were among China's chief exports to Taiwan.
Taiwan does not allow direct trade with China and indirect trade is
routed mainly through Hong Kong. REUTER 

TRADE INTERESTS READY FOR FIGHT IN U.S. CONGRESS
    WASHINGTON, March 16 - 
U.S. lawmakers are gearing up for a showdown between protectionists
and free traders as a major trade bill winds its way through
committees to a vote by the full House of Representatives in late
April. In a move to toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws, a key
House subcommittee last week approved a toned down version of
legislation to require President Reagan to retaliate against foreign
countries that follow unfair trade practices. This bill will be the
cornerstone of congressional efforts to restore competitiveness of
American industries and turn around last year's record 169 billion
dlrs trade deficit. Several lawmakers have argued the new trade bill
made too many concessions to Reagan and said they intend to back
amendments to "get tough" with countries that violate trade agreements
or keep out U.S. products. On the other hand, congressmen known for
their allegiance to free trade, said the bill ties Reagan's hands too
much in trade disputes and they will seek to restore his negotiating
powers. Republican Bill Frenzel of Michigan said the subcommittee's
bill was not one "that a free trader like me could endorse in all
respects," but he emphasized there was a consensus among trade
lawmakers to work toward a bill Reagan and Republicans would
ultimately endorse. Frenzel said the goal of trade legislation was,
"to make our trade policy stronger without violating our international
trade agreements. You'll find a lot of people who think we have not
done the former enough. You'll find poeple who think we haven't
avoided violating agreements." In a key concession made at the urging
of the powerful chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, the
trade subcommittee backed off a requirement that would have forced
Reagan to automatically impose quotas or tariffs on imports from
countries that engage in unfair trade practices. It also agreed he may
waive any retaliation if it would hurt the U.S. economy. Ways and
Means chairman Dan Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat, insisted the
more moderate approach was necessary if the House wanted to pass a
bill Reagan would sign into law. Reagan last year had blocked Senate
consideration of a tough House trade bill he branded as protectionist
and this year only reluctantly agreed to support a trade bill when he
saw Democratic leaders were determined to pass a bill. As an
indication of his success, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told
reporters Friday the administration still did not like some
provisions. But he added, "Generally we feel very good about the
bipartisan consideration of the trade legislation. I think we are
progressing very well." The first battle will take place next week
when the full House Ways and Means Committee considers an amendment by
Rep. Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, to force countries such as
Japan, South Korea and Taiwan to cut their trade surpluses with the
United States. The subcommittee limited the Gephardt plan to provide
only that the existence of a large trade surplus with the United
States will trigger an investigation of unfair trade practices, but
would not automatically set off retaliation. Rep. Phil Crane, an
Illinois Republican and staunch free trader, said he will try to
further weaken the Gephardt plan. Organized labor has pressed
lawmakers for more relief from imports where jobs have been lost to
foreign competition. AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland this year angered
the administration in a statement that any trade bill Reagan would
sign would not be worth passage in Congress. But Rostenkowski set the
tone of the trade debate in a statement, "I'm not trying to write
legislation to please Lane Kirkland. I'm trying to write legislation
that will be signed by the president." In writing the bill, the
subcommittee rejected calls for trade relief for specific industries
such as textiles. Rep. Ed Jenkins, a Democrat from Georgia, agreed to
hold off his fight. He intends to push separately a bill to protect
the domestic textile and shoe industry, an aide said. Reagan vetoed a
similar measure last year. House Speaker Jim Wright, a Texas Democrat,
is one of the most influential proponents of aid for specific
industries beset by low priced foreign competition. Wright Thursday
renewed his call for import relief for the domestic oil industry and
announced his support for a Senate plan to trigger a temporary oil
import tariff when imports reach half of domestic consumption. For the
most part, the trade bill's provisions toughen U.S. enforcement of
trade laws. The bill forces the administration to act rapidly on
complaints of unfair trade practices such as dumping products in the
United States at prices below the cost of production. It also forces
the administration to act rapidly when an industry complains that a
surge in imports threatens its existence. Congressmen said the change
would have required the U.S. International Trade Commission to impose
limits on car imports in 1981. Reuter 

JAPAN FEBRUARY INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS JUMPS
    TOKYO, March 2 - 
Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus in the first 20 days of February
jumped to 3.58 billion dlrs from 1.94 billion a year earlier, the
Finance Ministry said. The February interim surplus was sharply up
from a 965.04 mln dlr surplus in the same January period. FOB exports
rose 14.6 pct from a year earlier in the first 20 days of February to
10.91 billion, while CIF imports fell 3.2 pct to 7.33 billion. The
average dollar/yen rates were 152.32 for exports and 152.31 for
imports against 196.61 for exports and 196.27 for imports a year
earlier. REUTER 

CANADA'S MULRONEY SAYS U.S. TRADE DEAL NEARS
    OTTAWA, March 16 - 
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said "significant progress" was being
made in trade talks with the United States and a profile of a major
deal was emerging. Opening a debate on free trade in the House of
Commons, Mulroney said an accord would create thousands of jobs in
Canada and bring greater economic prosperity to both countries.
Mulroney, who offered few new details of the talks, said that while
the negotiations were risky and difficult, "a profile of a major trade
deal is now emerging." In a 50-minute address, Mulroney made an often
passionate defense of the initiative that he said would give poorer
areas of the country a major economic boost. "Because of our trading
patterns over a period of decades, we are in the process of building
two Canadas -- one that is rich and promising, one that is under-
developed and under-employed," said Mulroney. "What we want is to make
sure Newfoundlanders and British Columbians and Albertans and others,
that they get their chance. They must be given the opportunity to
trade their way to prosperity." Few detials have been released on the
trade talks which were launched nearly two years ago between the two
nations that are each others most important trading partners. Recent
published reports in Canada, quoting senior trade sources, said the
countries were close to reaching a trade deal and it will involve
eliminating border trariffs and many non-tariff barriers over the next
10 to 12 years. It has been reported a key stumbling block in the
talks is a Canadian proposal to find a new way to settle trade
disputes, something that would give Canada protection from
Washington's tough trade remedy laws. But Mulroney, sharply critical
of protectionist sentiment in the U.S, said Canada was a "fair trader"
and denied the government was pursuing the deal to win unfair access
to the American market. He said a trade deal must bring benefits to
both sides. "We recognize a good deal must be a fair deal, one that is
fair to both sides," Mulroney said. Reuter 

YEUTTER SEES GATT CONSENSUS ON FARM TRADE REFORM
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said trade ministers meeting
here have reached a general consensus on agricultural trade reform
under the latest Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT). Yeutter gave no precise details of the understanding but
told journalists the consensus covers the principles involved in
agricultural trade reform and what needs to be done to improve the
global situation in agriculture. Delegates from 22 countries are
meeting informally to discuss progress made since the latest GATT
round was launched in Punta del Este, Uruguay, last September. Yeutter
said "at least people seem to be going down the same road...But how
that translates ultimately into negotiations is another matter
entirely." There seems to be an understanding of the need to deal with
the problem quickly and "a more common understanding of how we are
going to get from here to there," Yeutter said. However, the hard work
is still to come, with a couple of years of tough negotiations ahead,
he said. "It is ludicrous for the nations of the world to plough
immense amounts of financial resources into the production of items
that nobody wants to buy," he said. He said the long-term answer is to
switch some of the financial resources now committed to agriculture to
other more productive areas. This would help agriculture because some
its inefficient non-productive segments would stop operating, he said.
Individual segments in many countries may lose in the process, but it
should result in a more rational system of world-wide production
within 10 or 15 years, he said. It is important that the agriculture
negotiations reach a relatively early conclusion because the U.S. Is
spending 26 billion dlrs a year and the European Community probably
more than that, which is an ineffective use of financial resources, he
said. Asked about the prospect of a priority for agriculture in the
negotiations, he said "one has to be politically realistic... If there
is any chance of getting it (agricultural trade reform) done in two to
three years it's going to have to be as part of a larger package."
REUTER 

THATCHER SAYS TRADE TARGETS SET WITH MOSCOW
    MOSCOW, March 31 - 
British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said she and Soviet Premier
Nikolai Ryzhkov had set targets for increased trade between the two
countries during talks earlier today. She said she hoped more economic
exchanges between Britain and the Soviet Union "will also lead to
increased friendship and increased understanding." Earlier, she told a
meeting of Soviet and British businessmen that she had agreed with
Ryzhkov that they would work to achieve a total volume of 2.5 billion
roubles in bilateral trade by 1990. This would entail an increase by
each side of 350 to 400 mln stg over their present export levels. "Mr
Ryzhkov handed me a list of import and export opportunities which I
hope you will all jump at," she told the meeting to mark the opening
of new offices of the British- Soviet Chamber of Commerce. After her
talks with Ryzhkov, Thatcher and the Soviet Premier were joined for
the signing of agreements covering new scientific and cultural
exchanges by Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who had nine hours of
talks with her yesterday. REUTER 

BANGLADESH TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN OCTOBER 1986
    DHAKA, March 9 - 
The Bangladesh trade deficit narrowed to 1.91 billion Taka in October
from 5.64 billion in September and 2.43 billion in October 1985, the
Central Bank said. Imports dropped to 4.31 billion Taka in October
from 8.22 billion in September and 4.72 billion in October 1985.
Exports totalled 2.4 billion Taka in October, as against 2.58 billion
in September and 2.29 billion in October 1985. REUTER 

JAPAN WILL ASK COMPANIES TO BOOST IMPORTS
    TOKYO, March 31 - 
Japan's Minister of International Trade and Industry, Hajime Tamura,
will meet representatives from 151 of the nation's largest companies
next week and appeal to them to do their best to increase imports,
ministry officials said. The meeting was unveiled as part of a plan to
boost imports and help head off protectionist legislation in the U.S.
Senior officials from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry
told reporters that such personal appeals appeared to have paid off in
the past, as Japanese imports of manufactured goods have climbed.
Leading domestic semiconductor makers will boost imports and cut
production of key memory microchips next month in an attempt to help
ward off U.S. Trade sanctions, company spokesmen said. The officials
also said they expect the government's new trade insurance law to
boost imports and encourage Japanese companies to set up production
facilities overseas. Under the new law, the government will insure
Japanese companies who pre-pay for imports against loss arising from
everything from war to bankruptcy of the foreign firm they are dealing
with. MITI estimated that it would help solve Japan's trade problem to
the tune of about $10 billion dlrs a year. REUTER 

U.S.-JAPAN NOT IN TRADE WAR, YEUTTER SAYS
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
The United States and Japan are not involved in a trade war, despite
U.S. sanctions announced last week against Japanese semiconductors,
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said. "In my judgement,
we're not even close to a trade war," Yeutter told a House Agriculture
Committee hearing. Yeutter said if Japan takes action to honor its
agreement with the U.S. on semiconductor trade, "Then the retaliatory
response will last a relatively short period." Yeutter said Japan must
stop dumping chips in third countries and buy more American computer
chips. Reuter 

BRITAIN CALLS ON JAPAN TO INCREASE IMPORTS
    LONDON, March 11 - 
Britain today called on Japan to increase foreign imports or risk the
rise of protectionism and the harm it would bring to it and other
trading nations. British Trade and Industry Secretary Paul Channon
said Japan must heed a report issued by a Japanese government advisory
body in December calling for faster domestic demand to help cut its
trade surplus and restructure its economy. "I recognise that the
strong yen has brought problems to Japan's domestic economy," he told
a group of Japanese businessmen in London. "But these short term
difficulties should not be allowed to deflect Japan from the
fundamental reforms necessary," he said. "It is not just a domestic
issue for Japan. If import propensity does not expand very soon there
is a real risk from protectionist lobbies, particularly in the U.S.
With whom Japan has so massive a surplus," he said. "They may well
succeed in securing action by governments which would be highly
injurious to trading nations like Japan and the U.K." Channon said
there had been substantial growth in the volume of trade between Japan
and Britain, amounting to 6.2 billion sterling (9.8 billion dlrs) last
year. But he added: "Regrettably too much of it was in one direction,
with the Japanese selling us 3.7 billion sterling (5.8 billion dlrs)
more than we sold them." Reuter 

SOUTH KOREA TO KEEP TRADE SURPLUS 3-5 YEARS
    WASHINGTON, March 11 - 
South Korean Trade Minister Rha Woong Bae said his nation would
maintain a trading surplus for three to five years as a way to cut its
foreign debt. He said in an interview with Reuter that after a few
years it was likely South Korea would drop barriers to foreign goods
and move toward a more balanced trade position. He said the present
trade surplus was vital if his nation was to reduce its 44.5 billion
dlr foreign debt. Rha said that 1986 was the first year South Korea
had a trade surplus - 4.5 billion dlrs, against a 1985 deficit of 900
mln dlrs. Rha made his remarks at the end of a two-week trade mission
here during which a team he led agreed to buy U.S. products valued at
1.8 billion dlrs. About 800 mln dlrs of the purchases here were in
goods of the type South Korea normally bought from Japan. Rha leaves
today for Ottawa for trade talks with Canadian officials and
businessmen. Asked if South Korea would retaliate against U.S. goods
if Congress closed U.S. markets to its products, he said "at this
moment, we have no thought of retaliation." South Korea is a major
exporter to the U.S. of textiles and apparel and electronic goods,
such as television sets, video cassette records and personal
computers. Its purchases from the United States include electronic
testing equipment, grains and cotton. Reuter 

JAPAN ALERTS GATT TO SOUTH KOREA IMPORT PLAN
    TOKYO, March 17 - 
Japan told the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that South
Korea's five-year import diversification plan violated the spirit of
the world trade governing body, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. The
notification came in Japan's answer to a recent GATT questionnaire on
unfair trade practices, the spokesman said. In the five-year plan,
which starts this year, South Korea aims to reduce its dependency on
Japan as a source of imported goods and to increase imports from the
U.S. And Europe. Japan's move came after several unsuccessful
bilateral negotiations on the plan, the spokesman said. "The
notification does not represent anything resembling a formal
complaint, nor is it intended to pressure South Korea. It is a routine
procedure followed by all other GATT member states." Reuter 

CANADIANS URGE EXEMPTION FROM U.S. TRADE BILL
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
A group of Canadian lawmakers from Ontario today asked their U.S.
counterparts to exempt Canada from the mandatory trade retaliation
provisions in a major trade bill being considered by the U.S.
Congress. At a meeting of the Northeast-Midwest Coalition, an
organization of U.S. legislators, David Cooke, chairman of the Ontario
Parliament's Select Committee on Economic Affairs, said the exemption
would help trade relations. The trade legislation to be considered by
the full House in late April would require President Reagan to
retaliate against foreign unfair trade practices unless the trade
actions would harm the U.S. economy. Currently, Reagan can reject
trade sanctions on any grounds. Cooke, a member of the Liberal party,
told the U.S. congressmen, "I can understand (the trade bill). I think
it has to do with concerns you have with the other parts of the
world." "I would suggest to you that we are your best friends. You do
not have those concerns with Canada and you should sincerely consider
exempting our country from that bill," he added. Canada is the United
States' largest trading partner, with two-way trade more than 113
billion dlrs in 1985, according to the coalition. But the U.S. ran up
a 23 billion dlr deficit in manufactured goods that year compared to a
14 billion dlr surplus in services trade with its neighbour. Reuter 

CANADA LEADERS FAIL TO SET PACT ON FREE TRADE
    OTTAWA, March 12 - 
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said he held "frank" discussions with
the Canadian province premiers on the pace of free trade talks with
the United States, but the longstanding issue of provincial
ratification remains to be settled. Speaking to reporters after nearly
five hours of meetings with the 10 premiers, Mulroney said further
discussions would be held in June and September to discuss the role of
the provinces in approving any new trade deal. But he maintained
progress was being made in the sweeping talks with the Unites States
that got under nearly two years ago. "It appears reasonable progress
is being made (in the talks)," Mulroney said. Alberta Premier Don
Getty agreed, "Things are running pretty quickly now." The talks,
launched by Mulroney's Progressive Conservative government after
concerns about protectionist sentiment in the U.S., are aimed reducing
the remaining barriers between the world's largest trading
partnership. But the provinces are expected to play a major role in
any new trading arrangement, and some of the provincial leaders
complained of a lack of progress on reaching a ratification formula.
"It's my view that we should be thinking about these things right now,
along with the questions of the substance of the agreement," commented
Ontario Premier David Peterson, who has been highly critical of the
talks in the past. But Newfoundland Premier Brian Peckford said an
agreement was more likely to emerge by consensus and there would be no
need for a "hard and fast formula." Peckford said it appears Canada is
prepared to make concessions to the United States on financial
services in order to make inroads on other bargaining areas, such as
agriculture. Canadian published reports, quoting government sources,
say the two countries are close to reaching a trade deal and it will
involve eliminating border tariffs and many non-tariff barriers over
the next 10 to 12 years. A rough draft of the accord is expected to be
presented to the premiers at the June meeting while the finished
document is hoped to be presented to Congress in October. "It's a very
tight time frame," Ontario's Peterson said last night. "But at this
moment it is tough to say what will transpire." Reuter 

BRAZIL COMPUTER MARKET TO REMAIN CLOSED-MINISTER
    RIO DE JANEIRO, MARCH 24 - 
Brazilian Science and Technology Minister Renato Archer said Brazil
will keep its computer market closed to foreign goods in order to give
its own infant industry time to develop. "Every country establishes
laws to protect its interests. The United States closed their borders
at a certain stage to some foreign goods and therefore protected its
industrial development. Now it is time for Brazil to do likewise,"
Archer said at the opening of a national software conference. After
several meetings, Brazil and the U.S. Have made no major progress in
their computer row, which they have been trying to resolve for the
past 18 months. The Reagan administration has objected to Brazil
protecting its computer industry from imports. Reuter 

KEY U.S. HOUSE PANEL FINISHES MAJOR TRADE BILL
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
The House Ways and Means Committee completed action on legislation to
toughen U.S. trade laws, chairman Dan Rostenkowski said. The
committee's consideration of one of the most controversial provisions,
a plan to force major trade surplus countries to cut their trade
imbalance with the United States, was deferred until the full House
considers the trade bill, its sponsor Rep. Richard Gephardt said.
Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, told Reuters he was not certain the
exact form his trade surplus reduction proposal would take. Last year
the House approved his plan to force a 10 pct surplus cutback each
year for four years, by countries such as Japan. The Ways and Means
Committess' trade bill forces President Reagan to retaliate against
unfair trade practices that violate international trade agreements but
it allows him to wave retaliatory tariffs or quotas if the action
would hurt the U.S. economy. The trade bill gives U.S. Trade
Representative Clayton Yeutter more authority in trade negotiations
and in decisions to grant domestic industries import relief. It also
gives him authority to decide whether foreign trade practices are
unfair and violate U.S. trading rights. These powers are currently
held by President Reagan. The administration has strongly objected to
this transfer of authority from Reagan to Yeutter. The bill also
extends U.S. authority to negotiate multilateral trade agreements. The
bill will be wrapped into other trade legislation and voted on in the
House in April. Reuter 

EC OFFICIAL FAULTS U.S. TRADE BILL
    LOS ANGELES, March 19 - 
Sir Roy Denman, Head of the EC Delegation in Washington, said pending
U.S. trade legislation is a misguided attempt to deal with the
nation's trade deficit and will spark retaliation if passed in its
present form. "To think that you can deal with a trade deficit by
legislation is a mistake," he told the Foreign Trade Association here.
Denman told reporters that possible retaliation, which he warned of in
a letter to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski,
would not necessarily be on a product-for-product basis. "Retaliation
does not have to be matched product to product," Denman said. He said
in the case of textiles import restrictions, however, retaliation
would be against U.S. textile exports. "Certainly, if restrictions
were imposed on European exports of textiles to the U.S., the
Community would be likely to retaliate with restrictions on U.S.
textile exports to Europe," Denman said. He also took exception to
U.S. proposals to require countries with large current account
surpluses with the U.S. to cut those surpluses or face special
tariffs. "This would conflict with international obligations, throw a
large wrench into the current round of trade negotiations and could
easily boomerang," he warned of the tariff proposals. Denman also took
exception to U.S. efforts to seek reciprocity in specific trade
sectors. "Forcing reciprocity in one sector by imposing barriers would
simply lead to retaliation from the other party," he said, adding that
overall reciprocity can only be achieved by trading off disadvantages
in one sector for advantages in another. Reuter 

PHILIPPINES POSTS 68 MLN DLR JANUARY TRADE DEFICIT
    MANILA, March 23 - 
The Philippines posted a trade deficit of 68 mln dlrs in January,
compared with deficits of 57 mln in January 1986 and 28 mln in
December, government figures show. The National Census and Statistics
Office (NCSO) said imports of 436 mln dlrs in January were up from 371
mln in January 1986 and 393 mln dlrs in December, while exports of 368
mln were up on the 314 mln in January 1986 but lower than December's
421 mln. The country's 1987-92 medium-term development plan targets a
9.8 pct average annual growth in exports and a 10.7 pct growth in
imports, the NCSO said. REUTER 

YEUTTER SAYS U.S. BUDGET DEFICIT REDUCTION KEY TO TRADE DEFICIT SOLUTION




BALDRIGE SAYS U.S. TO IMPOSE JAPANESE SANCTIONS
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said the United States would go
ahead with planned 300 mln dlr sanctions against Japanese
semiconductor exports, despite any U.S. Japanese talks to avert the
trade curbs. He said in a speech to an export-import group that he was
sure the United States and Japan could work out their dispute over
unfair Japanese trade practices in semiconductor trade, but "I am sure
the sanctions will go in before we work it out." Sanctions are to be
imposed on April 17. He also said he did not think there would be a
trade war with Japan, because Japan had too much value in exports to
the United States to risk such a war. "Those fears are unfounded," he
said. He told reporters later that the sharp drop in the securities
market was not due to fears of a trade war, but fear of inflation and
that the Federal Reserve may act on that fact. Market reaction was
also due, he said, to the drop in the value of the dollar, although
trade issues did have some effect. Baldrige said that observers who
were attributing the drop in the market to trade sanctions were
"barking up the wrong tree." He said the market observers will realize
this shortly. Baldrige said his remarks did not mean to suggest
anything about the market or the exchange rate of the dollar. Reuter 

UK FEB TRADE DEFICIT 224 MLN STG VS DEFICIT 527 MLN IN JAN - OFFICIAL.




ROSTENKOWSKI SAYS HE WILL OPPOSE PROTECTIONIST TRADE BILL IN U.S. HOUSE




EGYPT, SOVIETS TO RENEGOTIATE ARMS DEBT TERMS
    CAIRO, March 16 - 
Egypt and the Soviet Union are expected to sign an agreement in Moscow
next week settling Cairo's three billion dlr military debt, Egyptian
officials said. One official, who asked to remain anonymous, told
Reuters a draft agreement would reduce to zero from two pct future
interest payable on the 10 year-old debt, and set a 25 year repayment
term. Talks are due to begin in Moscow on Wednesday. Economy Minister
Youssri Mustapha, who leaves for Moscow on Tuesday, met President
Hosni Mubarak and Egyptian ambassador to Moscow Salah Bassiouni to
discuss the issue. One official said Egypt would propose a new
exchange rate for trade with the Soviet Union. Current commerce is
based on a rate set in the 1960s of 0.38 Egyptian pounds to the dollar
which Moscow sees as unreasonable. The fluctuating official rate is
about 1.36 pounds to the dollar. The officials said part of the debt
would be paid in exports of goods such as textiles, leather and
furniture. Egypt wants to settle the debt problem partly to open the
door for new cooperation, mainly in modernising Soviet-built steel,
aluminium and fertiliser plants under a five-year development plan
ending June 30 1992. Egypt, which already imports Soviet coal, wood,
newsprint and glass, also wanted a debt deal to allow purchases of
currently blocked spare parts for its ageing Soviet military hardware,
the officials said. An estimated 65 pct of Egypt's arsenal is still
made up of Soviet-supplied equipment, one official said. Cairo stopped
repaying Moscow for arms purchases in 1977 when then-president Anwar
Sadat broke with its long-standing ally and turned to the U.S.. REUTER


WHITE HOUSE PANEL SAID URGING JAPAN RETALIATION
    WASHINGTON, March 26 - 
The White House Economic Policy Council decided to recommend trade
sanctions against Japan for violations of the U.S.-Japanese
semiconductor agreement, industry sources said. They would give no
details, noting that the White House had not commented on the
decision. The administration has been under pressure to retaliate.
There was no immediate announcement on the council's decision, but
U.S. Officials said it was likely the senior policy group's move on
curbs reflected growing American frustration over alleged unfair
Japanese trade practices. U.S. Officials said President Reagan would
probably act on the recommendations in a day or so, after consulting
with aides on the foreign policy implications of retaliation. The
officials said Reagan might delay retaliation for a last try to
persuade Japan to abide by the agreement reached last July governing
trade in semiconductors. Under a pact reached last July, Japan was to
stop dumping semiconductors in world markets and to open its own
market to U.S.-made semiconductors. In return, the U.S. Agreed to hold
up imposing anti-dumping duties on Japanese semiconductor shipments.
The United States said that dumping has stopped in the U.S. Market but
has continued in third countries, and that the Japanese market remains
closed. The pressure on Reagan to retaliate included a unanimous call
by the Senate last week to impose penalties on Japanese high
technology products containing semiconductors. A call for retaliation
also came from the semiconductor industry and from its chief trade
union. U.S. Officials said the most likely move against Japan would
involve duties on semiconductor-based goods, such as televisions,
video cassette recorders and computers. REUTER 

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - POLISH SANCTIONS
    WARSAW, March 5 - 
Poland says U.S. Sanctions have cost its economy 15 billion dlrs and
has made clear it wants Washington to take a lead in repairing the
damage after lifting remaining restrictions two weeks ago. Polish
officials are unable to provide a precise breakdown of the figure,
saying it takes into account a number of hypothetical losses. Some of
them are "too sophisticated to convert into financial terms," one
banking source said. But Western economic experts say the effect of
sanctions is impossible to calculate. They say it is blurred by the
poor performance of Poland's economy, and dismiss the 15 billion dlr
figure as illusory. "Sanctions have provided a very useful excuse for
under- achieving. They did have a bad effect, yes, but they only
contributed to largely internal, economic problems," one said. The
U.S. Imposed the measures and withdrew Most Favoured Nation (MFN)
trading status from Poland in 1982 in retaliation for suppression of
the Solidarity free trade union under martial law. The estimated cost
to the Polish economy was originally devised several years ago by the
Institute of National Economy, an offshoot of the central planning
commission. According to one Western envoy, an expert on Polish
economic affairs, it extrapolated 1979 information on growth trends in
trade with the United States, as well as increases in credits from
Western commercial and government lenders. But the calculations were
based on a time when trade was booming and credits still flowed
freely, he said, dismissing the estimate as "a theoretical projection
based on a high point, which has no real scientific evaluation." A
foreign trade ministry official said Polish exports to the U.S. In the
late 1970s averaged around 400 mln dlrs annually and had fallen by
half since the sanctions were imposed. Imports have suffered, slumping
from around 800 mln dlrs to 200 mln, as credits ran out. Poland has a
dwindling trade surplus with the West. Last year it was one billion
dlrs against a targeted 1.6 billion, official figures show.
Acknowledging that sanctions have lost Poland important U.S. Markets
-- including agricultural equipment, textiles, chemicals and some
foodstuffs -- Western economists say credits dried up for economic not
political reasons. "Poland is accusing the West of letting economic
relations deteriorate for political reasons," said one expert. "It's
an illusion based on a misunderstanding of Western economy." "There's
a limit to how much you can go on giving someone who has no hope of
repaying it," another said, adding that Poland had benefited from a
global phenomenon of easy credits in the 1970s which were no longer
today's reality. Describing the 15 billion dlr assessment as
"nebulous," one diplomat said it also included losses of hypothetical
orders and setbacks to Polish research through the curbing of
scientific links and exchanges. Western officials say the lifting of
sanctions and new MFN status will have little impact on Poland, which
has a hard currency debt of 33.5 billion dlrs and lacks the means to
modernise its industry. "MFN doesn't really mean anything, only that
Poland will not be treated worse than other countries. It will be
difficult to regain access to the U.S. Market because different forces
are in play now," said one Western envoy. He said Polish products were
not competitive, and their quality was too low. Trade wars and
possible protectionist measures amongst the U.S., Japan and Europe
would also hamper Poland's efforts to regain entry. Deputy foreign
trade minister Janusz Kaczurba recognised this fact recently. Kaczurba
told the official PAP news agency recently, "Making up our lost
position will take a long time and be uncommonly difficult, and in
certain cases impossible... In a period of two to three years it will
be possible to increase the level of exports by only about 100 mln
dlrs." While Poland is unlikely to seek compensation, it says it has a
"moral right" to assistance from the U.S. Which it says imposed the
sanctions illegally. But a Western economist said "The argument that
U.S. Sanctions were a unilateral torpedoing of the Polish economy
won't cut any ice. The Americans will just reply that the Poles acted
immorally in crushing Solidarity." Nevertheless, Polish National Bank
head Wladyslaw Baka, in talks in Washington last week with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank, made it clear that
Poland was looking for a lead from the United States. He was quoted by
PAP as saying that Poland would meet its financial obligations to the
United States, "but not in a short time and not without a cooperative
stand on the part of its foreign economic partners." He stressed that
the U.S. "had a particular opportunity to play a part in the
cooperative policy of Poland's partners interested in the settlement
of Polish debt." Putting it more sharply, one senior banking official
blamed Washington for obstructing talks with the World Bank, IMF and
Paris Club of Western creditor governments in recent years and said it
should now play a more positive role. "As a major superpower the
United States can influence international organisations," he said,
citing recent meetings aimed at stabilising currencies as an example
of the extent to which Western nations were prepared to cooperate.
REUTER 

TAIWAN TO RELAX IMPORT CURBS ON MORE GOODS
    TAIPEI, March 12 - 
Taiwan will relax import controls on more foreign goods, a government
spokesman said today. The move was to allow greater access to Taiwan
markets by overseas trading partners, especially the United States, an
official of the Council for Economic Planning and Development told
Reuters. Import curbs on about 400 foreign goods, including stationery
and books, would soon be relaxed, he said. Taiwan announced it would
ease curbs on some 600 farming and industrial products last month. The
official said the moves were intended to balance trade between Taiwan
and the United States and other trading partners. Taiwan's trade
surplus reached a record 15.6 billion dlrs last year, up from 10.62
billion in 1985. Reuter 

INDONESIA URGED TO DEREGULATE ITS ECONOMY
    JAKARTA, March 24 - 
World Bank President Barber Conable linked increased borrowing by
Indonesia, the Third World's sixth largest debtor, to fresh measures
to deregulate trade and dismantle protectionist barriers. "We would
like to see the Indonesian government continue the adjustment process
... To move towards increased deregulation of the economy," Conable
told a press conference at the end of a three-day visit to Jakarta.
Conable directly linked further Bank help for Indonesia's hard-pressed
balance of payments to further measures by the government to reduce
protectionism and increase efficiency. The World Bank last month
granted Indonesia a 300 mln dlr trade adjustment loan. He said further
loans would depend on the economic policies Indonesia adopted. But he
said that in meetings with both President Suharto and leading
Indonesian ministers he had not called for specific policy changes.
"The initiative will have to rest with the Indonesian government. We
are not here to dictate to them," he stated. Indonesia, the only Asian
member of Opec, has been badly hit by last year's slump in oil prices
which cut its revenues from crude exports in half. Conable had what he
termed a frank meeting this morning with Suharto. He voiced support
for measures already taken, including September's 31 pct devaluation
of the rupiah, and efforts to deregulate imports and stimulate
exports. "The government can rely on the support of the World Bank in
a continuing program of adjustment to the economic realities of
today's world," he said. The Bank has loaned Indonesia 10.7 billion
dlrs over the past 20 years. Lending is now about one billion a year.
The World Bank would probably like to see further dismantling of
tarrif barriers and measures to reduce Indonesia's protected
monopolies in areas like steel, plastics and cement, western bankers
and diplomats said. The government has already said it will announce
further deregulation measures, but has given no timetable. It is also
considering selling off loss-making state companies. Conable said the
Bank would try to help Indonesia find funds to cover its share of
development projects, which otherwise would have to be scrapped or
postponed. Japan's Ex-Im bank announced a 900 mln dlr untied credit
last month. REUTER 

YEUTTER STRESSES IMPORTANCE OF TRADE TALKS
    WASHINGTON, April 2 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter stressed the importance of
trade negotiations to open foreign markets rather than trade
restrictions in a statement to the Senate Finance Committee. "In the
long term we cannot repeatedly bludgeon other nations into opening
their markets with threats of U.S. restrictions. Rather, we must be
able to negotiate credibly for global liberalization," Yeutter said.
Yeutter did not mention the recent U.S. trade sanctions against
Japanese semiconductors in his testimony on the pending trade bill.
Yeutter said the trade bill should increase U.S. competitiveness, aid
U.S. trade negotiating leverage, and avoid provoking foreign
retaliation. He urged Congress to reject provisions that would mandate
U.S. retaliation against foreign unfair trade practices. Yeutter
emphasized the importance of the new multilateral trade negotiating
round and called on Congress to quickly approve an extension of U.S.
negotiating authority. "We want to open foreign markets and establish
and enforce rules of international competition, not foster dependence
on protection and subsidies," he said. Reuter 

ROSTENKOWSKI OPPOSES PROTECTIONIST TRADE BILL
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski said Congress
must avoid a temptation to pass a protectionist trade bill this year.
In remarks prepared for delivery before the National Press Club,
Rostenkowski, D-Ill., predicted major trade legislation will be sent
to President Reagan by the end of this year. But he warned that his
"conciliatory message" on the trade bill did not mean he would oppose
a proposal that would warn other countries their access to the
American market would be curtailed unless they opened their markets to
U.S. goods. "Complaints about (foreign trade) restraints are not a
smoke screen for protectionism, they a plea for fairness,"
Rostenkowski said. "It is only reasonable to ask the nations that have
denied us access to open up in return for continued freedom in the
American market," he added. However, he said there would likely be
changes in the market access proposal from the plan which cleared the
House last year. That plan would have set a specific time table for
foreign countries to ease import restraints or they would face a 25
pct cut in exports to the United States. Reuter 

 EUROPE ON SIDELINES IN U.S-JAPAN MICROCHIP ROW
    LONDON, March 31 - 
Rising imports of Japanese-made cars and electronic goods may upset
West European officials, but they generally seem prepared to stay on
the sidelines in the latest trade row between the United States and
Japan. Japan's huge trade surplus is a sore point in West Europe, as
it is in the United States. But U.S. Charges of unfair trade practices
involving computer microchips leave Europeans cold. The European
Community ran a 18.2 billion dlr trade deficit with Japan last year,
and seeks redress when it feels Japanese trade policy hurts Europeans,
diplomats and economists said. But only in Britain has there been any
suggestion of acting with the U.S. To do something about Japan's huge
trade surplus. "The EC is no more illiberal on trade issues than is
the U.S.," said Martin Wolf, director of studies at the Trade Policy
Research Centre in London. "Basically, their policies are pretty much
the same." But that did not mean Europe would support the U.S., Or
that the EC would climb on the bandwagon to take advantage of the U.S.
Dispute to press its own claims, Wolf said.Basically, Europeans have a
different approach to trade problems, he said. "In the U.S., People
talk about fair trade, but not here," he added. "In the U.S., It all
has to do with the general ethic of free competition, while in Europe,
the general approach is that liberal trade is good because it makes
countries rich." Wolf said this basic U.S. Attitude explains
Washington's tendency to impose so-called "countervailing duties" - an
import tax designed to offset advantages alleged to be unfair. In
Western Europe, the approach to trade disputes tends to be to try to
reach a settlement through negotiation, Wolf said. In the latest
U.S.-Japan trade row, President Reagan has threatened to raise tariffs
on selected Japanese electronic goods by as much as 300 mln dlrs,
alleging that Japan has failed to abide by a 1986 U.S.-Japan pact on
microchip trade. But the European Community has challenged the
agreement as a violation of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) practices that discriminates against its microchip producers.
"It follows that they're not likely to rally to the side of the United
States in defence of the agreement," said Wolf. Although British
parliamentarians are pushing for a tough line on Japanese trade
issues, government officials in the rest of Europe told Reuter
correspondents they would let the EC take the lead in any response to
the U.S.-Japan trade row. A spokeswoman for the EC Commission in
Brussels told Reuters there has been no change in the Community's
position since a March 16 meeting of foreign ministers which sent a
strong warning to Tokyo on trade imbalances. In a statement issued
after that meeting, EC foreign ministers deplored Japan's continued
trade imbalance and appealed for a greater Japanese effort to open up
its markets. EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq said after
the talks there was a growing impatience with Japan in the EC.
Diplomats accredited to the EC in Brussels said they saw no signs of
any immediate intention to impose any broad-ranging sanctions against
Japan. The EC is anxious to avoid provoking a trade war, they said.
Instead, the Community is trying to target problem areas in European
trade with Japan, including wines and spirits, cosmetics, and
financial services, and will continue talking to try to improve the
situation, the diplomats said. In Britain, where the government is
angered over the difficulties telecommunications giant Cable and
Wireless has faced in its bid to crack the Japanese market, officials
said last week that retaliatory action is being considered. But
government officials said last night, "We are not talking about days
or weeks. This is going to take time." They said the government would
consider its options at a cabinet meeting on Thursday, but added that
no final decisions were expected. The main thing the British would
threaten the Japan with is denial of access to London's booming
financial markets, government officials said. REUTER 

NAKASONE SOUNDS CONCILIATORY NOTE IN CHIP DISPUTE
    TOKYO, March 28 - 
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone sounded a conciliatory note in
Japan's increasingly bitter row with the United States over trade in
computer microchips. "Japan wants to resolve the issue through
consultations by explaining its stance thoroughly and correcting the
points that need to be corrected," he was quoted by Kyodo News Service
as saying. While expressing regret over America's decision to impose
tariffs on imports of Japanese electrical goods, Nakasone said Tokyo
was willing to send a high-level official to Washington to help settle
the dispute. Government officials said Japan would make a formal
request next week for emergency talks and that the two sides would
probably meet the week after, just days before the April 17 deadline
set by Washington for the tariffs to take effect. Tokyo is expected to
propose a joint U.S./Japan investigation of American claims that
Japanese companies are dumping cut-price chips in Asian markets.
Yesterday, Washington announced plans to put as much as 300 mln dlrs
in tariffs on imports of certain Japanese electronic goods in
retaliation for what it sees as Tokyo's failure to live up to their
bilateral chip pact. That agreement, hammered out late last year after
months of heated negotiations, called on Japan to stop selling cut-
price chips in world markets and to buy more American-made chips.
Nakasone's comments seemed distinctly more conciliatory than those of
his Trade and Industry Minister, Hajime Tamura, who earlier today said
Japan was ready to take "appropriate measures" if Washington went
ahead with the sanctions. Ministry of International Trade and Industry
(MITI) officials later sought to downplay the significance of Tamura's
remark and said that his main message was that the two sides need to
talk urgently about the issue. But they admitted that Japan was
considering taking the United States to GATT, the Geneva-based
international organization which polices world trade, if Washington
imposed the tariffs. Any Japanese action would probably be taken under
Article 23 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), they
said. If that article were invoked, GATT would set up a panel to
consider the legality of the U.S. Action. But officials here said they
hope that can be avoided. "It may be wishful thinking but there is a
possibility the United States may lift its decision at an early date,"
Tamura said. In announcing the U.S. Sanctions yesterday, President
Ronald Reagan said he was prepared to lift them once he had evidence
that Japan was no longer dumping chips in world markets and had opened
up its own market to imports. Japanese government officials said they
are confident they can make the pact work. They said that the export
of cut-price Japanese chips through unregulated distributors has all
but dried up after MITI instructed domestic makers to cut output.
While acknowledging that it is harder to increase Japanese imports of
American chips, MITI officials said that the ministry is doing all it
can to ensure that happens. The Ministry recently called on Japan's
major chip users, some of whom are also leading producers, to step up
their purchases of foreign semiconductors. A spokesman for one of the
companies, Toshiba Corp <TSBA.T> said his firm would do just that and
could announce its plans in the next week or so. He expects other
Japanese companies to do likewise. REUTER 

U.S. OFFICIAL TO VISIT JAPAN AS TRADE ROW GROWS
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Undersecretary of State Michael Armacost will visit Tokyo next week
for meetings with high-level officials that will include talks on the
growing trade row over Japanese semiconductor electronics products. He
is the first high-level U.S. official to visit Japan since President
Reagan announced last week plans to impose tariffs worth up to 30 mln
dlrs on Japanese electronic goods on April 17 in retaliation for
Tokyo's alleged failure to live up to a pact on microchip trade signed
last September. Deputy State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley
said the trip is set for April 6 to 8. U.S.-Japanese talks of this
kind are regularly held each year at this time, she told reporters.
The Armacost discussions with Deputy Foreign Minister Ryohei Murata
and other senior Japanese officials will focus on U.S.-Japanese
foreign aid programs and political security issues of mutual concern,
she added. "Although an exchange of views on bilateral relations is
expected, the talks are not directly related to U.S.-Japanese trade
relations," she insisted. But, in response to questions, Oakley
acknowledged that trade will be discussed. Japan's 58.6 billion dlrs
trade surplus with the United States last year has come under fire in
Congress, which is concerned about the loss of jobs to foreign
competition and with the record 169 billion dlrs U.S. Trade deficit in
1986. Reuter 

SPAIN TO LAUNCH EXPORT DRIVE
    MADRID, March 4 - 
Spain unveils a 105 billion peseta plan this month aimed at boosting
exports to reach European Community levels, director-general of the
INFE export institute, Apolonio Ruiz Ligero, said. "The target is to
raise exports to 20 pct of Gross Domestic Product over the next four
years compared to 15 pct now," he said. "This is the minimum
prevailing level in the EC and there is no reason why we should lag
behind countries like Italy, which have a similar productive
structure," he said. The plan calls for providing soft loans, tax cuts
and other fiscal benefits to exporters and raising Spain's presence in
international trade fairs. Consumer goods such as fashion and wine, as
well as traditional industrial exports will be promoted. Ruiz Ligero
said INFE would double its annual budget to 20 billion pesetas to
finance the four-year plan, while the government's development aid
fund (FAD) would provide a special 25 billion peseta grant. The plan
calls for boosting exports by five to six pct in real terms this year
after a 7.4 pct decline last year. Ruiz Ligero attributed this drop to
a lack of demand in developing countries and a rally in domestic
consumer demand, which rose six pct last year after 1.9 pct in 1985.
He added that 80 pct of Spain's exports went to Organisation for
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries. The EC accounts
for 60 pct of the market and exports to the Community rose seven pct
last year. The government plans to concentrate efforts on Western
Europe and the U.S. "The problem is convincing businessmen that
exports are vital to survival in the context of EC competition," he
said. He said Spanish businessmen traditionally turned to the domestic
market to satisfy rises in consumer demand, while turning their backs
on foreign markets. "They have to realise their share of the home
market is going to shrink with growing deregulation," he said.
"Foreign companies are taking up positions in the domestic economy and
it is it vital to secure a market share abroad." REUTER 

TAIWAN'S EXPORT ORDERS FALL IN FEBRUARY
    TAIPEI, March 20 - 
Export orders for Taiwanese products fell 1.37 pct to 3.58 billion
U.S. Dlrs in February from 3.63 billion in January, but rose nearly 43
pct from 2.51 billion a year earlier, an Economic Ministry official
said. He attributed the fall to the rising Taiwan dollar. February
orders for electric and electronic goods were 619 mln U.S. Dlrs, up
from 574 mln in January and 370 mln in February 1986. Garment orders
were 324 mln dlrs against 383 mln and 283 mln while footwear orders
were 297 mln compared with 333 mln and 200 mln. REUTER 

BRITISH POLITICIANS URGE JAPAN TRADE SANCTIONS
    LONDON, March 26 - 
One hundred members of Britain's ruling Conservative Party have signed
a motion calling for trade sanctions against Japan to force Tokyo to
open its domestic market to British goods. The government announced
last week that Japan had a 5.9 billion dlr trade surplus with Britain
in 1986. The Department of Trade and Industry said the government was
drawing up contingency plans to force Japan into opening up its
domestic markets but a spokesman said such moves were very much a last
resort. Ideas being considered included blocking Japanese companies
from trading in Britain and revoking licenses of Japanese operations
in the London financial district. Reuter 

TREASURY'S BAKER NOT CONCERNED BY BOND DECLINES
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker, asked whether he was concerned about
yesterdays precipitous decline in bond prices, said he was not.
Questioned by reporters as he left a House committee hearing, Baker
said "no," when asked about the bond decline, adding that it was a
reflection of concern about the possibility of a trade war. "It is
what the markets think would be the adverse consequences of a trade
war." He said the administration was concerned that protectionism
would lead to international trade problems adding that he thought the
action against the Japanese was still consistent with this policy.
Reuter 

U.S. SENATE TRADE LEADER CONCERNED ABOUT CANADA
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
The chairman of the U.S. Senate committee with jurisdiction over trade
said he was concerned about a resolution on bilateral trade
negotiations adopted by the Canadian House of Commons last week. The
resolution supports negotiation of a bilateral trading agreement with
the United States while protecting Canadian political sovereignty,
social programs, agricultural marketing systems, the auto industry and
Canada's cultural identity. Senate Finance Committee chairman Lloyd
Bentsen said the resolution may jeopardize the viability of the
proposed free trade agreement between the two countries, which are
each other's largest trading partners. "We need a truly free trade
agreement, which means both countries have to work toward a deal that
is mutually beneficial and comprehensive, a large agreement," the
Texas Democrat said in a statement. "I do not question Canada's right
to protect its political sovereignty or cultural identity. However, if
these phrases mean the government of Canada means to take important
economic issues off the table in these negotiations, I am deeply
concerned," he added. Bentsen said Canada restricts trade 15 different
ways while the United States uses only six trade restriction methods.
He said if Canada proposes an agreement where both countries get rid
of six methods of trade restriction, it would not be fair and might
not win Senate approval. "I am deeply concerned that when the
President visits Prime Minister (Brian) Mulroney next month, he will
be presented with this kind of argument, and I hope he makes it clear
-- as I did when I was in Canada -- that only a mutually beneficial
agreement will be successful," Bentsen said. Reagan and Mulroney are
scheduled to meet April 5-6 in Ottawa. Bentsen urged Mulroney to
withdraw a proposal that would ban imports of independently produced
films into Canada by non-Canadians, which the senator called a
protectionist measure. Reuter 

NEXT WORLD TRADE NEGOTIATIONS MUST SUCCEED - NZ
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - 
Ministers from more than 20 nations were told by New Zealand that the
next international negotiations on liberalising trade would be the
last this century and the cost of failure could not be measured. Trade
minister Mike Moore told his colleagues at a welcoming ceremony before
two days of talks here that great progress had been made in preparing
for the negotiations which must not be sidetracked. "We live in
troubled and dangerous times for the world trading system," he said.
"We have seen that the failure of the world trading system has caused
great depression and conflict in the past. Our failure to maintain the
momentum will be at great cost to us all," Moore said. "The cost of
failure is beyond calculation. It is our last hope and best
opportunity this century. We will not get another chance before the
year 2000," he added. The ministers are in New Zealand to review world
trade since the "Uruguay round" talks last September. The talks are
also part of preparations for a full-scale June meeting of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Venice. The Uruguay meeting
is considered by most countries to have been particularly successful,
with northern hemisphere countries managing to have service industries
such as banking and insurance included in the next full round. The
southerners' goal of including agricultural and tropical products also
was met. The meeting at this North Island tourist resort is described
by participants as informal and no declaration is expected. Moore said
one aim was to "instil a sense of political urgency to avert potential
economic tragedy." Another was to seek ways of popularising freer
trade to people who felt the pain of readjustment but could not see
the benefits, as well as preventing "bush fires of confrontation while
we proceed with orderly negotiations." The meeting is being attended
by 25 overseas delegations including representatives of GATT and the
Economic Community. The delegates include U.S. Trade Representative
Clayton Yeutter. American sources say he is ready to state that the
best way to reverse protectionist sentiment in the United States is to
implement four key Uruguay proposals: -- an end to agricultural
subsidies; -- inclusion of trade in services and investments in GATT
regulations; -- tightening of restrictions on pirating of so-called
intellectual property such as trademarks, patents and copyrights; --
new rules to resolve trade disputes among GATT's 92 member states.
Earlier, New Zealand sources had said French Foreign Trade Minister
Michel Noir had pulled out of the informal GATT talks for domestic
political reasons. Cabinet chief Bernard Prauge will lead the French
delegation. Reuter 

CHINA TRADE DEFICIT FALLS IN JANUARY
    PEKING, March 12 - 
China's trade deficit in January fell to 310 mln dlrs from 460 mln in
January 1986, the China Daily Business Weekly said. Quoting customs
figures, the paper said exports fell to 1.75 billion dlrs from 1.84
billion and imports fell to 2.06 billion from 2.3 billion. REUTER 

N.Z. TRADE SURPLUS 119.1 MLN DLRS IN FEBRUARY
    WELLINGTON, March 25 - 
Preliminary trade figures for February show an excess of exports over
imports of 119.1 mln N.Z. Dlrs, a Statistics Department statement
said. This compares with a 3.3 mln dlr deficit (revised from 1.7 mln)
in January and a 36.1 mln dlr deficit in February 1986. Exports rose
to 998.4 mln dlrs, from 889.2 mln (revised from 889.5) in January and
903.2 in February 1986. Imports dropped to an estimated 879.4 mln dlrs
from 892.5 (revised from 891.2) in January and 939.3 in February 1986.
The deficit for the eight months to the end of February was 15.3 mln
dlrs, as against 1.057 billion dlrs in the same period a year ago.
REUTER 

YUGOSLAV TRADE FALLS SHARPLY  STATISTICS SHOW
    BELGRADE, March 30 - 
Yugoslav trade is declining rapidly this year in hard currency terms,
according to the latest Federal Statistics Office (FSO) figures. The
FSO figures showed total exports from January 1 to March 23 valued at
875.59 billion dinars, compared with 667.18 billion dinars in the same
period last year. These figures were down by 12.5 pct on last year in
dollar terms due to exchange rate fluctuations and changes in how the
figures were calculated, FSO sources said. This year current exchange
rates were used for the first time instead of a fixed rate of 24.53
dinars to the dollar. BELGRADE, March 30 - Yugoslav trade is declining
rapidly this year in hard currency terms, according to the latest
Federal Statistics Office (FSO) figures. The FSO figures showed total
exports from January 1 to March 23 valued at 875.59 billion dinars,
compared with 667.18 billion dinars in the same period last year.
These figures were down by 12.5 pct on last year in dollar terms due
to exchange rate fluctuations and changes in how the figures were
calculated, FSO sources said. This year current exchange rates were
used for the first time instead of a fixed rate of 24.53 dinars to the
dollar. 

U.S. HOUSE PANEL TAKES FIRST TRADE BILL VOTES
    WASHINGTON, March 11 - 
House trade lawmakers took their first votes on measures designed to
toughen U.S. trade laws but held over until tomorrow the most
difficult votes on controversial plans to protect American industries.
Meeting in closed session, the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee
failed to resolve one of the most sensitive issues in the bill--
whether they will force major foreign trading partners to severely cut
their trade surpluses with the United States. The subcommittee is
considering a toned-down version of Democratic-sponsored trade
legislation that aims to open foreign markets but which drops last
year's effort to force President Reagan to retaliate with quotas or
tariffs. Congressional aides who asked not to be identified said the
lawmakers intend to wrap up their proposals tomorrow and will consider
a proposal to mandate retaliation without setting specific trade
penalties. The legislation faces another hurdle in the full Ways and
Means Committee next week before the full House votes on it. Rep.
Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat who is seeking his party's 1988
presidential nomination, said he may offer an amendment to call for
reductions in the trade surpluses of those countries with barriers to
imports of U.S. goods. This would be a moderated version of his
earlier plan to force a mandatory ten per cent annual cut in the trade
surplus with the United States by Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, West
Germany and other countries with the largest trade imbalances. "My
criteria for a good amendment sets a standard for getting the trade
deficit down," he told reporters. The trade law changes are to become
part of a major congressional and administration effort to turn around
the record U.S. trade deficit of 169 billion dlrs last year by opening
up foreign markets and making U.S. products more competitive. House
Speaker James Wright, a Texas Democrat, said again today he expects
the full House will approve the trade bill by May and that Reagan will
accept the final congressional bill. "I expect whatever is reported
(by the Ways and Means Committee) will pass. We will have a good bill
and an effective bill," he told reporters. The comprehensive trade
bill will include work by other committees to ease export controls on
high technology, to aid U.S. workers displaced by foreign competition,
to stimulate research and development, to remove foreign trade
barriers and to improve education and worker training. The lawmakers
agreed that for the first time a U.S. industry could charge foreign
producers with unfair competition if they deny basic worker rights
such as collective bargaining, safety rules and payment of a minimum
wage appropriate to the country's economic development. They
transferred to U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter the powers
now held by Reagan to decide whether to retaliate against foreign
violations of fair trade rules and whether an injured industry
deserves import relief. They agreed to make it easier for a company to
get temporary relief from import competition but agreed the industry
should provide a plan to become competitive. The administration has
not announced its support but Yeutter said yesterday, "I am cautiously
optimistic," that the Democratic-led House will come up with an
acceptable bill. Reuter 

U.S. HOUSE PANEL EASES SOVIET EXPORT CONTROLS
    WASHINGTON, March 24 - 
The U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee voted to ease restrictions on
exports that are now kept from shipment to Soviet-bloc countries but
are no longer a threat to U.S. national security. The Democratic-
controlled committee said the administration's export control
policies, which restrict shipment of thousands of products,
contributed to last year's record 169 billion dlr U.S. trade deficit.
The committee said the legislation will cut government red tape and
make it easier for U.S. companies to compete with foreign producers
since many of the goods are readily available from other countries.
Rep. Don Bonker, chairman of the International Economic Policy
subcommittee, said the unnecessary restrictions had cost the U.S. 17
billion dlrs in exports a year. "This is Congress' number one
opportunity to attack the trade deficit in a positive way by exporting
more," the Washington Democrat said. The legislation would order the
Commerce Department to lift controls on 40 pct of goods on the
restricted export list over the next three years unless other
countries agree to comparable controls. Most of these are of the least
sophisticated type of technology such as medical instruments. It would
also give the Commerce Department primary authority to decide which
exports will be permitted and limit the Defense Department to an
advisory role in reviewing requests to export highly-sensitive
technology. Reuter 

WHITE HOUSE UNIT DECIDES ON SEMICONDUCTORS
    WASHINGTON, March 26 - 
The White House Economic Policy Council made a recommendation to
President Reagan whether to retaliate against Japan for alleged unfair
practices in semiconductor trade, U.S. officials said. They would not
disclose the council's recommendation, but the officials said earlier
it was likely the council would call for retaliation and urge that
curbs be imposed on Japanese exports to the United States. The
officials said it might be several days before Reagan would act and
his moves made public. The Senate last week unanimously called on
Reagan to impose penalities on Japanese exports. Retaliation was also
called for by the semiconductor industry and its chief trade union,
both hard hit by Japanese semiconductor trade. In a pact last summer,
Japan summer agreed to stop dumping its semiconductors at less than
cost in the United States and other nations and to open its own market
to the U.S. products. In return, the United States agreed to hold up
imposing anti-dumping duties on Japanese semiconductor shipments. U.S.
officials say that while Japan has stopped dumping semiconductors on
the American market, they have continued to dump them in third
countries and that the Japanese market has remained all but closed to
the U.S. semiconductors. semiconductors on the American market, they
have continued to dump them in third countries and that the Japanese
market has remained all but closed to the U.S. semiconductors. reuter


BAKER SEES LOWER JAPANESE TRADE SURPLUS
    WASHINGTON, March 6 - 
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said the Japanese trade surplus
would begin to decline this year. He told the National Newspaper
Association "You're going to see a reduction in the Japanese trade
surplus -- some of it this year". But he said the reduction would be
due principally to the exchange rate shifts since the Plaza Agreement,
and these shifts would take a long time to work their way through the
system. Reuter 

GATT ROUND MAY STOP GROWING TRADE PROBLEMS: U.S.
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - 
A successful new GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) round
is needed to halt growing bilateral trade problems between major
trading partners, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said.
Yeutter, in New Zealand for informal GATT ministerial talks, told
Reuters bilateral trade disputes are increasing because the
multilateral system is inefficient. "That is really a strong rationale
why we need a new GATT round," he said. "The very existence of all
these bilateral irritants clearly emphasises the need to develop
multilateral solutions to some of these problems." The eighth GATT
round of negotiations was launched at Punta del Este in Uruguay in
September 1986. Agriculture and services were included in the
negotiations for the first time. The growing debt burden of Latin
American and African nations will also provide impetus for the GATT
round to succeed, he said. "Clearly those countries need to develop
their export endeavours and they need open markets for that to happen
and that's the basic objective of the new GATT round." But he said the
GATT round is a long term endeavour. It will not give any short term
relief for debt ridden countries, but it will make a difference in 10
to 15 years. "It's a worthwhile activity from their standpoint because
these debts are not going to go away in the next year or two," he
said. "They ought to be very strongly supported in the GATT round as a
mechanism for relieving their debt burdens or making possible debt
amortisation in the future," he said. Reuter 

VOLCKER URGES QUICK AID TO DEBTOR NATIONS
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said that debtor nations
have made much progress in laying the groundwork for economic growth,
but a solution to world debt difficulties was endangered by inaction
on new financing. "There is clearly a danger that adequate financing
arrangements are not being negotiated and put in place in a timely
way," Volcker told the Senate Banking Committee. The borrowing
countries need to be able to proceed with confidence that the
necessary funds will be available to them, he said. Brazil has the
potential for becoming a leading world economic power, but it is in a
difficult position today, Volcker said. He said it will take a
concerted effort to regularize Brazil's external payments. "The key
prerequisite is clearly in the hands of Brazilian authorities," he
said. Both Brazil and its creditors have a strong incentive to work
together, Volcker said. Regarding trade imbalances, Volcker said that
it was critically important that markets be kept open by the
industrial nations. In addition, the United States must reduce its
budget deficit and foreign nations need to provide stimulus to their
domestic economies, Volcker said. "We need time for those actions and
the earlier depreciation to work their effects," he said. Reuter 

BALDRIGE SAYS JAPAN MUST OPEN ITS MARKETS
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said the United States will not
stand idly by and let Japan dominate the world electronics market.
Baldrige told the Senate Finance Committee the United States would
insist Japan open its markets to U.S. products as the U.S. market is
open to Japanese products. Asked after his testimony if this meant the
United States would close its markets to Japan if they did not open
theirs, Baldrige said, "I'm not prepared to say that, but it certainly
would be one of the alternatives studied." Baldrige said in his
testimony Japan had a closed supercomputer market and a restricted
telecommunications market. "I can only conclude that the common
objective of the Japanese government and industry is to dominate the
world electronics market. Given the importance of this market to U.S.
industry in general and our defense base in particular, we cannot
stand by idly," he said. He said it was these concerns about national
security which led him to express reservations over the proposed
acquisition of Fairchild Semiconductor by Fujitsu of Japan. Reuter 

HOUSE TRADE BILL DRAFTING POSTPONED
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
The House Ways and Means trade subcommittee postponed until next week
its opening session to start drafting major changes to U.S. trade
laws, a committee aide said. The subcommittee had not yet completed
the preparatory work to start writing the legislation, the aide said.
Reuter 

ISLAMIC BANKS ESTABLISH 50 MLN DLR TRADE PORTFOLIO
    ISTANBUL, March 28 - 
The Islamic Development Bank (IDB) and 20 Islamic Banks signed an
agreement to establish a 50 mln dlr trade portfolio to finance trade
among Islamic countries, IDB sources said. They said IDB's share in
the portfolio, which will only finance exports and imports of the
private sector, was limited to up to 25 mln dlrs. The sources said
shares in the porfolio could be traded or redeemed by the IDB, adding
that this was a major step in establishing an Islamic financial
market. REUTER 

 EC SAYS U.S. BROKE TRADE RULES IN AKZO-DUPONT ROW
    BRUSSELS, March 20 - 
The European Community Commission has charged the United States with
breaking international trade rules by excluding Dutch-made fibres from
the U.S. Market and said it would take the issue to the world trade
body GATT. In the latest of a series of trade disputes with
Washington, the executive authority alleged that a section of the U.S.
Tariff Act was incompatible with the GATT (General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade) because it discriminated against imported products
in favour of domestically-produced goods. The Commission said it would
ask Geneva-based GATT to rule on whether the section in question,
which officials said had proved a barrier to many EC exporters,
conformed to its rules. Commission officials did not rule out
retaliatory measures if, after a GATT decision against it, Washington
failed to bring the disputed section into line with international
rules. The executive's decision to go to GATT follows a complaint to
it by the Dutch company Akzo <AKZO.AS>, whose "aramid" synthetic
fibres have been banned from the U.S. Market because of charges by the
U.S. Firm <Dupont> that the fibres violate the American company's
patents. Akzo alleged that the ban, imposed by the U.S. International
Trade Commission (ITC), was discriminatory and incompatible with GATT
provisions. The dispute centres on the fact that section 337 of the
U.S. Tariff Act gives the ITC jurisdiction over imported products. The
EC Commission charged that EC producers did not have the same
possibilities for defending themselves before the ITC as they would
have in a normal U.S. Court. "Consequently the procedure followed...Is
less favourable than that which takes places in normal courts of law
for goods produced in the United States," it said in a statement.
Reuter 

U.K. EXPORTS BODY GETS NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
    London, March 3 - 
Export Credits Guarantee Department has named Malcolm Stephens,
director of export finance at Barclay's Bank Plc and a former career
civil servant at ECGD for 17 years, to the post of executive director,
a department spokesman said. Stephens replaces Jack Gill, who is
retiring early aged 57. A drop in the ECGD's business volume and a
rise in its debt to the Exchequer have led to criticism in Parliament
in recent years. Stephens said the fall in business volume was a top
convern, adding that the department may have to compete more
aggressively with private insurance firms providing similar services.
The department's annual report for the year ended March 31, 1986,
showed exports insured by the department fell to 15.7 billion stg from
17.4 billion the year before, while its debt to the Exchequer almost
doubled to 756 mln stg. Stephens said he had no specific list of
changes. But among his chief concerns was the weakened condition of
lesser developed countries and their ability to pay for their imports.
The agency will have to review its policies on insuring export credits
to lesser credits on a country by country basis, he said. "Large lump
political risk insurance is the sort of thing we want to take a look
at." "You have to try to look forward to see if you are simply in a
peak and trough situation or it is a more long term thing," Stephens
said, in response to a qustion about whether ECGD will strike more
countries from its list of political risk insurance recipients. He
noted that certain countries have already been removed from the list.
REUTER 

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - U.S. CONGRESS RAPS JAPAN
    WASHINGTON, March 30 - 
The U.S. Congress is making Japan, with its enormous worldwide trade
surplus, the symbol of the U.S. trade crisis and the focus of its
efforts to turn around America's record trade deficit. "Japan has come
to symbolize what we fear most in trade: the challenge to our high
technology industries, the threat of government nutured competition,
and the multitude of barriers to our exports," Senate Democratic
Leader Robert Byrd said. "If we can find a way to come to terms with
Japan over trade problems, we can manage our difficulties with other
countries," the West Virginia Democrat said at a Senate Finance
Committee hearing on the trade bill. Byrd and House Speaker Jim
Wright, a Texas Democrat, have made trade legislation a priority this
year and a wide-ranging bill is being readied for probable House
approval next month. Japan's bilateral trade surplus jumped from 12
billion dlrs in 1980 to 62 billion dlrs last year. Its surplus rose to
8.14 billion dlrs in February from 5.7 billion dlrs in January.
Congress points to the record 169 billion dlrs U.S. trade deficit in
1986 and the slow response in the trade imbalance to the dollar's
decline in world currency markets as a reason to press Japan to buy
more U.S. goods. They are particularly dismayed by the rapid
deterioration in U.S. exports of sophisticated computer technology. In
response to the growing anger and pressure by the U.S. semiconductor
industry, President Reagan Friday announced he intended to raise
tariffs as much as 300 mln dlrs on Japanese electronic goods in
retaliation for Japan's failure to abide by a 1986 U.S.-Japanese
semiconductor agreement. Congress also has been been angered by the
administration's lack of success with Japan on a host of other trade
issues including beef, citrus, automobile parts, telecommunications
goods, and financial services. The bulk of the House trade bill was
written last week in four committees. It is a package of trade
sanctions and measures to force the administration take tough action
against foreign trade barriers and unfair competition. Although most
provisions do not single out Japan, in many cases their impact would
be to restrict imports of Japanese products or make them more
expensive with higher duties. The cornerstone of the trade legislation
passed the House Ways and Means Committee by a vote of 34 to 2. Its
focus is to force President Reagan to retaliate against unfair foreign
competition and to make it easier for U.S. industries to win temporary
relief from surges in imports. The most controversial issue, an
amendment to restrict imports if countries such as Japan with large
surpluses do not buy more U.S. goods was left for an April vote by the
House. Rep. Richard Gephardt, a Democratic presidential aspirant from
Missouri, has the support of Wright and other key Democrats to press
for passage of the amendment. The measure would have the most impact
on Japan, West Germany, Taiwan and South Korea. If Japan, for example,
does not reduce its barriers by mid-1988, the United States would set
import quotas or tariffs to cut Japanese surplus by ten per cent a
year for three years. "I'm tired of going into companies and having
managers say to me, 'We're not over competing in Japan because we
can't compete in the marketplace.' That argument needs to be taken
away from American business," Gephardt said. The administration has
said it could not support a trade bill containing such a provision. 

BANK OF JAPAN CALLS FOR LONG-TERM EFFORTS ON TRADE
    TOKYO, March 13 - 
The short-term effect of foreign exchange rate movements in correcting
international trade imbalances appears to be waning, and long-term
efforts are required to cut Japan's chronic dependence on external
demand, the Bank of Japan said in a monthly report. Japan's trade
surplus in nominal terms is likely to remain high in the near future,
the central bank said. Fundamental adjustments will be needed as long
as Japan hopes to benefit from a better international allocation of
resources and maintain the free trade system, it added. REUTER 

CHINA CALLS FOR BETTER TRADE DEAL WITH U.S.
    PEKING, March 3 - 
China called on the United States to remove curbs on its exports, to
give it favourable trading status and ease restrictions on exports of
high technology. But the U.S. Embassy replied that Chinese figures
showing 13 years of trade deficits with the U.S. Out of the last 15
are inaccurate and said Peking itself would have to persuade Congress
to change laws which limit its exports. The official International
Business newspaper today published China's demands in a editorial to
coincide with the visit of U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz. "It
is extremely important that the U.S. Market reduce its restrictions on
Chinese imports, provide the needed facilities for them and
businessmen from both sides help to expand Chinese exports," the
editorial said. "The U.S. Should quickly discard its prejudice against
favourable tariff treatment for Chinese goods and admit China into the
Generalised System of Preference (GSP). "Despite easing of curbs on
U.S. Technology exports in recent years, control of them is still
extremely strict and influences normal trade between the two
countries," it added The paper also printed an article by China's
commercial counsellor in its Washington embassy, Chen Shibiao, who
said that "all kinds of difficulties and restrictions" were preventing
bilateral trade fulfilling its full potential. He named them as U.S.
Protectionist behaviour, curbs on technology transfer and out-of-date
trade legislation. The paper also printed a table showing that, since
bilateral trade began in 1972, China has had a deficit every year
except 1972 and 1977. It shows the 1986 and 1985 deficits at 2.09
billion and 1.722 billion dlrs. A U.S. Embassy official said the U.S.
Did not accept Peking's trade figures at all, mainly because they
exclude goods shipped to Hong Kong and then trans-shipped to U.S.
While U.S. Figures are based on country of origin. He said that, if
China wants to obtain GSP status, it will have to lobby Congress
itself to persaude it to amend several laws which currently prevent
Peking getting such status. The U.S. Trade Act of 1974 says that to
qualify for GSP, China must be a member of the General Agreement of
Tariffs and Trade (GATT), for which it applied in July 1986, and "not
be dominated or controlled by international Communism." The official
said China was well aware of the laws, some of which date to the anti-
Communist early 1950's, but that there is not sufficient political
will in the U.S. To change them. China has been the subject of about a
dozen cases involving anti-dumping in the U.S. Within the last two
years, which the U.S. Side won, he said. But, for the first time,
China signed last week an agreement which it itself initiated to
voluntarily restrain exports of at least two categories of steel
goods, which may lead the U.S. Side to withdraw the anti-dumping case,
he added. Another diplomat said willingness to provide such voluntary
export restraints would be an important issue in bilateral trade
issues and in Peking's application to GATT. "China has the potential
to disrupt world markets, especially in textiles. Other GATT countries
will be nervous about China in this respect. But there is a precedent
for other centralled planned economies in GATT," the diplomat said.
Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Romania are members of GATT but
none has China's massive market potential for imports or its vast
labour pool to produce cheap exports. In a speech today in the
northeast city of Dalian, U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz said
his country welcomed China's interest in participating in GATT. "The
process of Chinese accession will not be accomplished overnight -- the
GATT rules were not designed for a large economy of the Chinese type,"
Shultz said. "China can play an important role by actively joining
GATT discussions seeking to expand general trading opportunities and
enhance market access for exports worldwide. China can further develop
its foreign trade system so as to gain the maximum benefit from its
GATT participation," he said. The problems facing U.S.-China trade and
GATT membership are similar -- a pricing system which many foreign
businessmen regard as arbitrary and not related to actual costs,
especially for exports, and a de facto dual currency system. In a
memorandum backing its application presented to GATT last month, China
said it was gradually reforming its economic system and replacing
mandatory instruction with "guidance planning" and economic levers.
The diplomat said that, to join GATT, China had much to do. REUTER 

PHILIPPINE TRADE SECRETARY PLEASED WITH GATT TALKS
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - 
Philippine Secretary of Trade and Industry Jose Concepcion, who two
days ago expressed doubts about agreements produced at international
conferences, said he was pleased with the latest gathering here.
Concepcion told Reuters in an interview that the informal General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting gave ministers from more
than 20 nations the chance to examine issues with which GATT did not
have the political will to deal. "Also, the role of the developing
countries has been emphasised in this particular meeting. Somehow it
has been the perception of developing countries that GATT is a club of
rich countries," he added in an interview with Reuters. "In fact many
of the issues that have been tabled for discussion (in the Uruguay
round of trade negotiations) will be of more benefit to the developed
countries," he said. Concepcion said at the start of the Taupo meeting
that the Uruguay round was meant to be a "shining act of faith" in the
world trade system. Concepcion said the Philippines would address the
issues of trade in tropical fruit and the improvement of GATT
machinery to make it more responsive. He said tropical fruit came from
developing countries but faced non-tariff barriers, quantitative
restrictions or very high duties in other nations. Concepcion named
Japan and South Korea as examples. He said he would go to Wellington
for talks with New Zealand, which had a surplus in trade with the
Philippines, to encourage it to switch imports from other countries.
He noted that New Zealand bought its bananas from Ecuador. REUTER 

NAKASONE TO VISIT WASHINGTON IN LATE APRIL
    TOKYO, March 27 - 
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone will make an official week-long visit
to the United States from April 29 and hold talks in Washington with
President Reagan, Chief Cabinet Secretary Masaharu Gotoda told
reporters. Government sources said Nakasone would try to resolve
growing bilateral trade friction and discuss the June Venice summit of
Western industrial democracies. Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari will
accompany Nakasone, ministry officials said. U.S. Industry sources in
Washington said the White House Economic Policy Council was
recommending trade sanctions against Japan for violating the two
countries' agreement on semiconductor trade. Under the pact, Japan
pledged to stop dumping microchips in the U.S. And Asia and open its
domestic market to U.S. Semiconductors. REUTER 

CANADA OUTLINES GATT AGRICULTURAL REFORM PLAN
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - 
Canadian Trade Minister Pat Carney said that agricultural policies
should not hurt world international trade and should therefore become
more price responsive over time. She told delegates at the informal
meeting of trade ministers that this was one of five principles Canada
wanted adopted in reforming agriculture in the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Secondly, support for agriculture should
avoid production incentives, and thirdly, countries should freeze and
seek to reduce government aid measures that distorted world prices,
Carney said. Carney said the fourth principle was that countries
should not introduce new import barriers not mandated by existing
legislation and the fifth was that these basic principles must be
implemented collectively. Carney later told Reuters the Canadian
guidelines are basically compatible with the seven point Australian
proposals announced in Davos, Switzerland, in January. European trade
sources said the conference welcomed the Canadian initiative but some
delegates, and not only the European Community, voiced reservations
about some of the principles. Carney said there was a lot of political
will among the ministers here to complete the Uruguay Round of GATT in
under four years and that there is also a realisation that it has to
be done in a balanced way. "The consensus view was to proceed as fast
as we can on a broad front and see what areas emerge where we can get
early conclusion," she said. However, the meeting did not identify
what those areas are, Carney said. She said Canada/U.S. Bilateral
trade negotiations, which must be concluded at least in draft form by
October, are progressing well. REUTER 

TRADE BILL TO CHANGE AGRICULTURE TRADE LAWS
    WASHINGTON, March 13 - 
The House Ways and Means Committee is moving toward passage of a trade
bill that sponsors said was intended to help open foreign markets to
U.S. agricultural goods and to modify some U.S. agricultural trade
laws. The trade subcommittee voted to require President Reagan to take
into account the potential harm to U.S. agricultural exports of any
trade retaliation he might impose for foreign unfair trade practices
against other domestic industries. The bill would allow U.S.
agricultural producers to seek government monitoring of imports if
there is a reasonable chance the industry would be harmed by an import
surge. The full Ways and Means Committee is to consider the bill next
week and congressional sources said they expect it will be approved.
In investigations involving a processed agricultural product, trade
associations of processors or producers would have to petition for
relief from foreign dumping or unfair duties. The bill sets out U.S.
trade negotiating objectives for the Uruguay round of talks under the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. It would seek fair trade in
agriculture, seek to discipline restrictive or trade distorting import
and export practices, to eliminate tariffs, subsidies, quotas and non-
tariff barriers. President Reagan's authority to negotiate a new GATT
agreement would be extended through January 1993 and authority to
negotiate a free trade zone with Canada would be extended through
January 3, 1991. The bill extends Reagan's authority to negotiate an
international coffee agreement through October 31, 1989. It allows a
refund of import duties paid on raw sugar imported from November 1,
1977 to March 31, 1985 for production of sugar or products containing
sugar and destined for re-export. The export of the sugar or products
must occur before Octoer 1, 1991. Presently, to qualify for the refund
the sugar must be processed within three years after import and
exported within five years. Agriculture would also benefit from more
rapid decisions in complaints of unfair foreign trade practices or
injury from imports. Reuter 

S. KOREAN TRADE SURPLUS WITH U.S. SEEN FALLING
    CHICAGO, March 4, - 
South Korea's record 7.1 billion dlrs trade surplus with the U.S. is
bound to diminish as the country switches purchases from Japan in
favor of U.S. companies, Trade Minister Woong-Bae Rha said. He
rejected suggestions the Korean Won is undervalued, and denied any
plans for a "drastic and sudden" revaluation. Rha is heading a trade
mission to 37 U.S. cities. Last year South Korea ran a 4.3 billion dlr
trade surplus, including a record 7.1 billion surplus with the U.S.
and a 5.5 billion dlr deficit with Japan. Rha told Reuters in an
interview the current trade mission is looking for 2.0 billion dlrs in
purchases from U.S. companies, about a quarter of which represents
"transferred purchases from Japanese sources." Rha said the items
being sought by the current mission are "mainly chemicals, machinery
and parts." He said South Korea is the fourth largest importer of U.S.
agricultural products. The current mission is not involved in that
area but there are plans to buy "substantial amounts of cotton" from
the U.S. He noted his country "is clearly not as open as the American
market. Nor is it reasonable to expect that it should be," considering
South Korea has a 40 billion dlr foreign debt and spends six pct of
its gross national product on defense. Reuter 

BRITISH FARM MINISTER ATTACKS SUBSIDIES
    INDIANAPOLIS, March 16 - 
Farm subsidies and protectionist moves threaten healthy trade on both
sides of the Atlantic, Michael Jopling, British minister of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, warned. "It would not be sensible to
provoke another dispute between Europe and the United States," Jopling
said in remarks prepared for an evening speech. "But some things are
clear and they apply on both sides of the Atlantic. We cannot continue
to pile up stocks while world demand shrinks," he said. "Governments
must not operate farm policies as if they were purely domestic affairs
with no impact on others. They also have to recognize that they cannot
in the long run develop a healthy and stable farm sector on the basis
of protectionism and excessive subisdies. "And above all, Europe and
the United States have too many common interests to make it worthwhile
to engage in trade wars and competitive export subsidies which end by
benefitting no one." He added, "It is crucial that the United States
and the European Community remain friends." Jopling, who is a member
of the EC agriculture committee, was in Indiana to visit several farms
prior to talks with U.S. officials in Washington later this week.
Jopling also criticized a recent proposal still under consideration by
the EC for a tax on vegetable and fish oils. He said his government
would oppose such a move because "We do not think it is correct that a
shortage of funds to support (EC) farmers should be alleviated by
raising money at the consumer's expense." Reuter 

 German February trade surplus 10.4 billion marks (Jan surplus 7.2 billion) - official




NAKASONE INTERVENES IN MICROCHIP DISPUTE
    TOKYO, March 24 - 
Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone intervened to try to resolve Japan's
escalating dispute with the U.S. Over semiconductor trade, government
officials said. At today's Cabinet meeting, Nakasone told Trade and
Industry Minister Hajime Tamura to redouble his efforts to calm U.S.
Anger over what it sees as Japan's unfair trade practices in
semiconductors. Nakasone intervened only two days before a scheduled
meeting of the Reagan administration's Economic Policy Council to
consider whether Japan is reneging on its microchip pact with the U.S.
That pact, agreed last year after months of negotiations, calls on
Japan to stop selling cut-price chips in world markets and to raise
its imports of U.S. Semiconductors. Senior U.S. Officials have accused
Tokyo of failing to live up to the accord and have threatened
retaliatory action. Yesterday, Tamura's Ministry of International
Trade and Industry (MITI) launched a last-ditch attempt to salvage the
pact by writing letters to U.S. Policy makers setting out Japan's case
and telling Japanese chip makers to cut output. In his letter, the
contents of which were released today, Tamura said a MITI survey
carried out at the beginning of March showed Japanese producers were
not selling at cut-rate prices in Asian markets. In a separate letter
sent to senior U.S. Officials, MITI vice minister for international
affairs Makoto Kuroda suggested the two countries could conduct a
joint investigation into allegations of Japanese chip dumping in such
markets. REUTER 

PAKISTAN'S TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN FEBRUARY
    KARACHI, March 12 - 
Pakistan's trade deficit narrowed to 2.64 billion rupees (provisional)
in February 1987 from 2.85 billion (final) in January and compared
with 2.94 billion in February 1986, the Federal Bureau of Statistics
figures show. Exports fell to 5.04 billion rupees (provisional) in
February from 5.34 billion (final) in January and compared with 3.90
billion in February 1986. Imports fell to 7.68 billion rupees
(provisional) in February from 8.19 billion (final) in January and
compared with 6.84 billion in February 1986. REUTER 

JAPAN TO CUT MICROCHIP OUTPUT, BOOST IMPORTS
    TOKYO, March 31 - 
Leading domestic semiconductor makers will boost imports and cut
production of key memory microchips from next month in line with
government attempts to ward off U.S. Trade sanctions, company
spokesmen said. The moves might persuade the U.S. To call off the
sanctions, despite obstacles to full implementation of the plans,
analysts said. The tariffs will affect about 300 mln dlrs worth of
products and are in retaliation for Japan's alleged failure to honour
a semiconductor trade pact. In announcing the sanctions last Friday,
President Reagan said Japan had not fulfilled its promise to halt
predatory pricing and open Japan's market to foreign products. But
U.S. Trade representative Clayton Yeutter said yesterday on U.S.
Television that the U.S. Is willing to drop the tariffs if Japan shows
a "clear indication" that it will open its markets to U.S. Goods. The
Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) has urged
producers to slash output of the chips by 11 pct in the second
quarter, following a call to reduce production by more than 20 pct the
previous quarter. MITI also urged makers to boost chip imports.
Analysts said the moves could encourage Washington to cancel the
tariffs ahead of next month's meeting between Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone and President Reagan. "The U.S. Wants to be satisfied. It has
rattled its sword and shown that it can and will do business," said
analyst Nick Edwards at Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd in Tokyo. But
analysts cautioned that although Japanese producers can cut output,
boosting imports -- the key to U.S. Withdrawal of the sanctions -- is
more difficult. "The U.S. Does not have the low-end consumer IC's
(integrated circuits) that the Japanese need for consumer products.
They're well supplied here," said Richard May, senior analyst at
Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd in Tokyo. The U.S. Leads in production of
medium and high-end IC's, but Japanese makers are keen to develop
their own high-end production skills, the analysts said. "The Japanese
must be prepared to trade some losses on semiconductors in return for
free access to other areas," said Edwards. A spokesman for Hitachi Ltd
<HIT.T>, said the firm's reduced output of 256 kilobit dynamic random
access memory (256K DRAM) was unrelated to MITI's efforts to ward off
the trade sanctions. Decreased production was a natural result of the
company increasing output of one-mln bit DRAM's, he said. Company
officials unveiled the following plans - - NEC Corp <NESI.T>, Japan's
largest chipmaker, plans to slash production of 256K DRAM
semiconductors by 29.41 pct to six mln per month from a monthly
average of 8.5 mln last quarter. In the year beginning April 1, NEC
will boost chip imports, which comprised some 20 pct of all NEC chip
consumption the year before. - Hitachi Ltd's <HIT.T> April output of
256K DRAM's will fall by 25.93 pct to four mln compared to 5.4 mln in
March. The company is trying to boost imports but has not set a
specific target. Imports are currently very low. - Toshiba Corp
<TSBA.T> will reduce April 256K DRAM production by 16.67 pct to just
over four mln and is considering ways to boost imports, a company
official said. Toshiba has an agreement with Motorola Inc (MOT.N) to
sell the U.S. Firm's chips in Japan. The firms are planning a joint-
venture production of memory chips in Sendai, northern Japan. -
Mitsubishi Electric Corp (MIET.T) will trim second quarter output by
about 10 pct to between 5.5 mln to 5.6 mln chips compared to the first
quarter. Plans call for increased imports but an official said
"boosting imports will be difficult as it depends on sales demand." -
Fujitsu Ltd (ITSU.T) will cut production in accord with MITI
guidelines and boost imports from currently low levels. - Oki Electric
Industry Co Ltd (OKIE.T) will reduce April production by 10 pct from
March's 3.2 mln. Oki is studying ways to increase imports by 10 pct in
the fiscal year beginning April 1 from the previous year's total of
more than five billion yen, a company official said. REUTER 

VOLCKER SAYS MORE STIMULUS ABROAD NEEDED FOR ADJUSTMENTS IN TRADE BALANCES




AUSTRALIAN MINISTER SAYS AGRICULTURE GATT PRIORITY
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - 
Australian Trade Minister John Dawkins said if the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) does not give high priority to
agricultural trade reform it will be neglecting the area of greatest
crisis. In a statement to the informal GATT trade ministers conference
here he said agriculture is a problem which involves all countries and
seriously affects the debt servicing abilities of a number of
developing countries. He said major countries should be showing
leadership on this problem. "We will be giving close attention to the
processes in the OECD (Organisation of Economic Cooperation and
Development) and elsewhere leading to the Venice economic summit where
we will be looking to the participants to adopt a strong commitment to
agricultural trade reform," Dawkins said. The Venice summit is
scheduled for June. He said Australia's interests in the Uruguay
Round, the eighth under the GATT, are wide ranging. Dawkins said he
sees the round as providing a timely opportunity to secure further
meaningful trade liberalisation in all sectors and to restore
confidence in the multilateral system. Dawkins said initial meetings
of the negotiating groups established in Geneva after the GATT
declaration last September in Punta del Este, Uruguay, have made a
reasonable start, but it is vital that trade ministers maintain the
pressure on these processes. "We must see that the commitments made at
Punta del Este on standstill and rollback are carried into practice."
The standstill and rollback of protection offers the global trading
system a chance to hold and wind back protection during the
negotiations which are expected to last up to four years, he said.
REUTER 

BALDRIGE PREDICTS END OF U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DISPUTE
    WASHINGTON, March 30 - 
The United States and Japan will soon settle their trade dispute over
semiconductors, U.S. Commerce secretary Malcolm Baldrige said on
television. Baldrige, referring to the U.S.-Japan trade agreement on
semiconductors, said: "Their government wants to live up to it. Their
industries haven't been doing it, and I think we'll have a good
settlement to spare both sides." "I think the Japanese understand full
well that they haven't lived up to this commitment," he said. He
added: "I do not think there will be a trade war at all." On Friday,
Washington announced plans to put as much as 300 mln dlrs in tariffs
on Japanese electronic goods from April 17, because of Tokyo's failure
to observe the agreement. The officials said the tariffs would be
ended as soon as Japan started adhering to the agreement. But they
said there was little chance Japan could react quickly enough to avert
the higher tariffs. Baldrige said the Reagan administration hoped the
strong U.S. Action against Japan would convince Congress to tone down
protectionist trade legislation now being drafted. He denied the
action had been taken for that reason. REUTER 

VOLCKER SEES NO CLEARCUT EVIDENCE THAT U.S. TRADE DETERIORATION HAS YET BEEN REVERSED




JAPAN IN LAST DITCH EFFORT TO SAVE CHIP PACT
    TOKYO, March 23 - 
Japan has launched a last-ditch effort to salvage its computer micro-
chip pact with the United States - sending a letter to top American
policy makers setting out its case and instructing its producers to
cut output further. "We must make our utmost effort to ward off any
catastrophe," Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI)
Deputy Director General Masaji Yamamoto told reporters. "If hasty
action is taken in the United States, it will create very serious
problems." The Reagan Administration's Economic Policy is expected to
meet Thursday to review Japanese compliance with the bilateral
agreement hammered out last year. Under the pact, Tokyo agreed to stop
selling cut-price chips in world markets and to increase its imports
of American semiconductors. Washington has accused Japan of reneging
on the deal by selling low priced chips in Asia and by failing to
boost American imports, and has threatened to take retaliatory action.
In an effort to save the agreement, MITI is asking Japanese chip
makers to limit production in the hope that will boost domestic demand
and reduce the incentive to export. Yamamoto said that Japan will
slash output of 256 kilobit dynamic random access and erasable
programmable read only memory chips by 11 pct in the second quarter.
This follows a cutback of more than 20 pct in the first three months
of the year. He said the cutbacks were already drying up the supply of
chips available for export through unregulated distributors in the so-
called grey market. "We have almost no grey market," he said. "Supply
is diminishing." To help ensure that the cutbacks are implemented,
MITI called in the president of Japan's largest semiconductor maker,
NEC Corp <NIPN.T> last week, he said. It is also issuing specific
instructions on production to the Japanese subsidiary of <Texas
Instruments Inc>. Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura spelled
out the steps Japan was taking to salvage the pact and appealed for
U.S. Understanding in a letter to top American policy makers. The
letter was sent today to U.S. Secretary of State George Schultz,
Treasury Secretary James Baker, Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige
and U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter. The four, who make up
the Economic Policy Council, are expected to consider evidence
presented by U.S. Chip maker Micron Technology Inc <DRAM.O> of cut-
price Japanese sales in Hong Kong. Yamamoto admitted that <Oki
Electric Industry Co>'s Hong Kong subsidiary had sold chips at an
inappropriate level but denied that it was dumping chips at rock-
bottom prices. "If the United States uses this as proof of
dumping...We will present our rebuttal," he said. The sales though
were inappropriate in the light of MITI's advice to semiconductor
makers to sell chips at well above production costs to avoid any hint
of dumping, he said. He also called the case "strange," but he stopped
short of endorsing Japanese newspaper accusations that Oki had been
trapped into making the sales. He did say though that Micron
publicized the invoice documenting the sales on the same day they were
made and that Oki was unable to locate the person who had bought the
chips when it tried to buy them back last week. Reuter 

WHITE HOUSE SAYS TRADE BILL GENERALLY GOOD
    WASHINGTON, March 13 - 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the administration had
some disagreements with the trade bill that cleared a House
subcommittee yesterday but generally felt good about the bill.
"Generally we feel very good about the bipartisan consideration of the
trade legislation. I think we are progressing very well," he told
reporters. "There are wide areas of agreement. There are some areas of
disagreement," he said. Reuter 

WORLD BANK CHIEF URGES MORE JAPANESE INVESTMENT
    TOKYO, March 27 - 
World Bank President Barber Conable called on Japan to boost
investment in developing nations, for its own sake as well as that of
the world economy. "Japan has the means to make a major contribution
to development in the Third World," he told about 500 Japanese
businessmen and academics. "I would be pleased with additional
support." With 25 pct of the world's total banking assets, Japan could
do more to help assist indebted Third World countries develop roads,
bridges and other infrastructure, he said. Conable said additional
commercial bank investment would also be to Japan's advantage. It
would profit from rechannelling its huge trade surplus into Third
World economies -- notably those in South America, China and India --
that are likely to expand faster than those in the developed world, he
said. Japan is now the second largest shareholder in the Bank's
concessionary lending affiliate, the International Development
Association (IDA). It has also agreed recently to expand its
contribution to another affiliate, the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), Conable noted. Conable said the
World Bank was expanding its structural adjustment loans, designed to
encourage developing countries to open their economies more to free
competition and trade. "Adjustment loans could rise to 30 pct (of
total World Bank loans) in the near future, though maybe not this
year," Conable told Reuters after his speech. Such loans currently
account for slightly over 20 pct. REUTER 

JAPAN MOVES TO TIGHTEN CHIP-EXPORT CURBS
    TOKYO, March 3 - 
The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) acted to
tighten restrictions on microchip exports to countries other than the
U.S. To preserve a U.S.-Japan pact on semiconductor trade, but major
Japanese chipmakers doubt its usefulness. A MITI spokesman said his
ministry had asked chipmakers to issue certificates to specified
trading houses stating they are authorised exporters. Trading houses
applying for a MITI export licence will be required to show such a
certificate, but those without it will not automatically be denied
licences, he said. But some industry officials predicted any
government measures were likely to have limited effect as long as the
world semiconductor market remained weak. U.S. Government and industry
officials have complained repeatedly that Japanese chipmakers continue
to sell at below cost to third countries despite the July agreement.
Japanese firms and officials in turn argue the flow of cheap chips to
third countries is due to grey-market sales by third-party brokers,
who seek to profit from the gap between low prices in Japan and higher
prices based on production costs and set for Japanese makers under the
agreement. The MITI spokesman said, "If the percentage of grey market
is increasing for one specific company, it suggests they are
distributing their products through their sales network knowing they
will be exported by some means. In that case we will ask them what
they are doing to reduce the figure." MITI earlier asked makers to cut
output of certain chips by 10 pct in first-quarter 1987, spokesmen for
the firms said. But they doubt the usefulness of the latest move. "As
long as there is a gap between prices set under the pact and market
prices, there will be people who want to exploit the gap to make
money," a Hitachi Ltd <HIT.T> spokesman said. REUTER 

GATT TO DEBATE U.S. CHARGES OF AIRBUS SUBSIDIES
    GENEVA, March 20 - 
The U.S. Will pursue its complaint that European governments unfairly
subsidise the Airbus Industrie aircraft consortium in proceedings at
the GATT civil aircraft committee, a GATT spokesman said today. The
U.S. Presented its case for the first time to the aircraft committee
of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) during a special
two-day session ending today. GATT rules cover some 80 pct of world
commerce. The 20-member committee agreed to open debate on the U.S.
Complaint, starting with informal consultations and then holding a
special session in July, trade officials said. "The tension has
eased," the permanent trade ambassador of the 12-member European
Community Tran Van Thinh told reporters. "The U.S. Has decided to go
through proper channels." U.S. Trade officials again made clear their
anger over what they call unfair government support for Airbus, voiced
during a visit to European capitals in February. In a letter calling
for the special committee meeting, Washington charged France, West
Germany, the U.K., Spain and the EC Commission with unfair practices
on behalf of Airbus. The U.S. Charges that the Europeans are violating
rules laid down in the 1979 Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft.
Washington presented its reading of rules on inducement to purchase
aircraft and support for development of airlines during the special
session and asked the committee to confirm its view. Official sources
in the delegations said the U.S. Views would be considered during the
informal consultations but the Europeans would also be free to bring
up any complaints against American civil aircraft practices. Some
delegates said the U.S. Position appeared to give such broad
interpretation to the rules as to suggest that the civil aircraft
accord needed re-negotiating. All these matters would be considered
during the informal meetings. Reuter 

PERU SHORT-TERM TRADE CREDIT UP TO 430 MLN DLRS
    LIMA, March 18 - 
Peru's short-term foreign trade credit lines, regarded as vital to
ensure smooth foreign commercial transactions, have more than doubled
to 430 mln dollars under the 20-month government of president Alan
Garcia. Central bank general manager Hector Neyra told reporters many
of the credits were 90-day. Trade credits were 210 mln dlrs when
Garcia took office in 1985 announcing a tough stance limiting foreign
debt repayments to 10 pct of export earnings. Neyra told Reuters Peru
was current on interest payments on short-term debt, including trade
credit lines and on about 750 mln dlrs in so-called "working capital"
credits. Trade credit lines were 880 mln dlrs in 1982, but fell in
1984 when Peru stopped some payments to private foreign banks. Reuter


NICARAGUA, ROMANIA, PARAGUAY LOSE TRADE RIGHTS
    WASHINGTON, March 6 - 
President Reagan formally ended preferential duty-free trade treatment
for exports from Nicaragua, Romania and Paraguay under the Generalized
System of Preferences (GSP). He took the action after determining that
the three countries are not taking steps to give their workers
internationally recognized rights. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton
Yeutter had announced the intended action on January 2. The United
States conducts no trade with Nicaragua and very little trade with
Romania and Paraguay. Reuter 

TAIWAN PROPOSES FURTHER TARIFF CUTS
    TAIPEI, March 24 - 
Taiwan said it plans another round of tariff cuts, possibly within a
month, to try to narrow its trade surplus with the U.S. Vice Finance
Minister Ronald Ho said a high-level economic committee recommended
tariff cuts on 66 products requested by Washington, including apples,
chocolates and fruit juice. Ho said the cuts may come into effect by
the end of next month. Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Widened in
the first two months of this year to 2.35 billion dlrs from 1.87
billion dlrs in the same period last year. REUTER 

U.S. URGES SURPLUS NATIONS TO BOOST GROWTH
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
Leading industrial nations will be reviewing the Paris agreement to
stabilize exchange rates, foster increased worldwide growth and reduce
trade imbalances but the U.S. thinks the accord has been successful so
far, a senior U.S. Treasury official said. "The Paris accord will be
reviewed at this meeting. It has been successful and continues to be
succesfull," a senior U.S. Treasury official told reporters. In a
briefing ahead of this week's semiannual IMF and World Bank meetings,
he also said the U.S. was looking to West Germany and Japan to bolster
their economic growth. The official said both surplus countries, like
West Germany and Japan, and deficit countries, like the U.S., agreed
to play a role in bringing about more balanced economic growth. He
reaffirmed the U.S. would press ahead with efforts to reduce its
budget deficit, resist protectionism and boost U.S. competitiveness.
The official also said that he expected trade issues, like the dispute
between the U.S. and Japan over microchips, to be included in the
discussions. The official made no direct comment on the content or
schedule of forthcoming Group of Five and Group of Seven discussions.
He said that industrial countries are concerned that the large
external imbalances remain a threat to the international monetary
system. He added that the meetings will also provide an opportunity to
discuss economic policy coordination efforts. The official said
indicators would be used to measure policy objectives of industrial
countries and their economic projections. They would also be used to
assess progress of policy goals. Asked whether the U.S. was proposing
a new initiative regarding the indicators, the official said the issue
would be reported to the Venice Summit in June. Monetary sources said
the U.S. proposal envisages using the indicators to make policy
coordination agreements, like the Paris Accord, more binding. Reuter 

VOLCKER PUSHES SPENDING CUTS OVER TRADE BILL
    WASHINGTON, April 7 - 
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said reducing the federal
budget deficit was a more important goal for Congress than drafting
trade legislation. "Reduce the budget deficit," Volcker responded when
asked by a member of the Senate Banking Committee about trade
legislation priorities. "If you don't deal with the budget deficit,
everything else you do is going to be counterproductive," he said.
Reuter 

TAIWAN SEES ITS INVESTMENT IN U.S. RISING SHARPLY
    TAIPEI, March 25 - 
Taiwanese investment in the U.S. Is expected to nearly double to 80
mln U.S. Dlrs in calendar 1987 and rise to 400 mln dlrs a year by
1991, a five-year forecast by the Economic Ministry showed. Taiwanese
investment in the U.S. Last year totalled 46 mln dlrs, the ministry
document said. The investment was mainly in electronics, trading, food
and service industries. Lee Ming-Yi, deputy director of the ministry's
Industrial Development and Investment Centre, said the forecast rise
is due to planned government incentives and growing willingness among
Taiwanese to invest abroad. Lee told Reuters the incentives, to be
introduced in May or June, include bank loans and a reduction in
capitalisation requirements for businesses seeking to invest in the
U.S. To 10 mln Taiwan dlrs from 20 mln. He said the moves to encourage
investment in the U.S. Are part of Taiwan's efforts to cut its trade
surplus with Washington, which rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs
in 1986 from 1985's 10.2 billion. Taiwanese manufacturers can create
jobs for Americans and avoid import quotas if they set up plants in
the U.S., He added. REUTER 

TOKYO BIDS TO STOP CHIP ROW BECOMING TRADE WAR
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
Japan is seeking to prevent its computer chips dispute with the U.S.
From erupting into a full-scale trade war, government officials said.
"We hope that the dispute on this specific issue won't have an adverse
effect on our overall relationship with the United States," a Ministry
of International Trade and Industry (MITI) official said. On Friday,
Washington announced plans for as much as 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on
Japanese electronic goods for Tokyo's alleged failure to live up to a
bilateral computer chip pact. That agreement, reached last year after
heated negotiations, called on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips
in world markets and to buy more American-made semiconductors. Foreign
Ministry officials immediately tried to isolate the fall-out from the
dispute by seeking to separate it from Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone's planned trip to Washington at the end of April. While Japan
has already done about all it can to make sure the chip pact is
working, the government is studying measures it can take in other
fields to defuse American anger and ensure the trip's success, they
said. "The perception of Japan in the (U.S.) Congress is very bad,"
one official told Reuters. "We would very much like to do something to
respond to that." In an apparent effort to prevent the chip dispute
from spreading to other areas, MITI officials sought to depict the
U.S. Action as a severe warning to Japanese semiconductor makers, not
to the government. Faced with a belligerent domestic chip industry and
an angry American Congress, the Japanese government has been forced to
walk an increasingly fine line in the semiconductor dispute, trade
analysts said. They said that it was an open secret that Japan's
largest chip maker, NEC Corp, was not happy with what it viewed as the
draconian measures MITI was taking to implement the pact, included
enforced production cuts. The angry response of Japanese chip makers
yesterday to the announcement of the U.S. Tariffs highlighted the
difficulties the government faces in taking further action. "Japanese
semiconductor manufacturers have complied with the U.S./Japan
agreement," said Shoichi Saba, Chairman of the Electronic Industries
Association of Japan. He accused the U.S. of being "irrational." He
said the U.S. action had made the bilateral chip pact "meaningless."
Saba's comments contrasted with those of Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone, who said Tokyo wanted to solve the dispute through
consultations. Japan is expected to send a high-level official to
Washington early next month to try to convince the U.S. Not to go
ahead with the tariffs on April 17. Trade analysts say Tokyo is likely
to outline industry plans to step up purchases of U.S. chips and to
propose a joint investigation into U.S. allegations of chip dumping.
Reuter 

NEXT WORLD TRADE NEGOTIATIONS MUST SUCCEED - NZ
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 22 - 
Ministers from more than 20 nations were told by New Zealand that the
next international negotiations on liberalising trade would be the
last this century and the cost of failure could not be measured. Trade
minister Mike Moore told his colleagues at a welcoming ceremony before
two days of talks here that great progress had been made in preparing
for the negotiations which must not be sidetracked. "We live in
troubled and dangerous times for the world trading system," he said.
"We have seen that the failure of the world trading system has caused
great depression and conflict in the past. Our failure to maintain the
momentum will be at great cost to us all," Moore said. He added: "The
cost of failure is beyond calculation. It is our last hope and best
opportunity this century. We will not get another chance before the
year 2000." The ministers are in New Zealand to review world trade
since the "Uruguay round" talks last Sepember. The meeting is also
part of preparations for a full-scale conference of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Venice in June. The Uruguay
meeting is considered by most countries to have been particularly
successful, with northern hemisphere countries managing to have
service industries such as banking and insurance included in the next
full round. The southerners' goal of including agricultural and
tropical products also was met. The meeting at this North Island
tourist resort is described by participants as informal and no
declaration is expected. Moore said one aim was to "instil a sense of
political urgency to avert potential economic tragedy." Another was to
seek ways of popularising freer trade to people who felt the pain of
readjustment but could not see the benefits, as well as preventing
"bush fires of confrontation while we proceed with orderly
negotiations." The meeting is being attended by 25 overseas
delegations including representatives of GATT and the Economic
Community. The delegates include U.S. Trade Representative Clayton
Yeutter. American sources say he is ready to state that the best way
to reverse protectionist sentiment in the United States is to
implement four key Uruguay proposals: -- an end to agricultural
subsidies; -- inclusion of trade in services and investments in GATT
regulations; -- tightening of restrictions on pirating of so-called
intellectual property such as trademarks, patents and copyrights; --
new rules to resolve trade disputes among GATT's 92 member states.
Earlier, New Zealand sources had said French Foreign Trade Minister
Michel Noir had pulled out of the informal GATT talks for domestic
political reasons. Cabinet chief Bernard Prauge will lead the French
delegation. REUTER 

WEST GERMAN EXPORTS TO U.S. DROP SHARPLY
    FRANKFURT, March 16 - 
West German exports to the United States fell below four billion marks
worth in January for the first time since mid-1984, provisional
Bundesbank data showed. The figures showed exports were 3.85 billion
marks in January, sharply down from December's 4.40 billion and the
lowest since the 3.56 billion exported to the U.S. In July 1984. This
compared with 4.86 billion marks in January 1986. Total West German
exports to Western industrialised countries also fell in January to
34.76 billion marks from December's 36.45 billion, also posting the
lowest monthly total since July 1984. West German exports to the
European Community were 21.60 billion marks in January, down from
22.14 billion in December and 22.94 billion in January last year, the
figures showed. Exports to developing nations and centrally-planned
economies also slackened. Separately, Commerzbank AG said in a report
that the focus of West German exports this year was likely to shift to
Europe because of an expected downturn in growth in the dollar area.
This was one of the strengths of West German exports compared with
Japan, which depended in large part on the U.S., OPEC and developing
country markets, it added. REUTER 

U.S. SENATORS SAY SANCTIONS LIKELY ON MICROCHIPS
    WASHINGTON, March 20 - 
The United States will likely impose sanctions soon on imports of
Japanese microchips, senators said today after a private meeting with
Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige. Although the senators said
Baldrige told them no decision would be taken until a final
determination is made on whether Japanese microchips were dumped in
the United States, they said they were virtually sure Japan would face
penalties. President Reagan's trade policy advisory group, of which
Baldrige is a member, will meet on the issue Wednesday. "I am
confident we will see action taken," Sen. John McCain, an Arizona
Republican, told reporters. "I am expecting sanctions at least, and
even more than sanctions," Sen. Pete Domenici, a New Mexico
Republican, said. The senators, several congressmen and U.S.
semiconductor industry representatives met with Baldrige and State
Department officials to discuss Japan's alleged violations of a
September 1986 agreement to stop dumping its microchips in the United
States and other countries. They recommended Japanese firms be
penalized through tariffs or import duties over the next six to 12
months for continuing to dump microchips. The violations were worth
100 mln dls to the Japanese semiconductor industry, they said. Asked
if Baldrige intended to recommend sanctions, Sen. Pete Wilson told
reporters, "The clear import of what he said is that there will be."
"Japan can't just say they will comply. We think sanctions must be
applied," for past violations of the agreement, the California
Republican said. The semiconductor industry produces microprocessor
chips which are used in high technology products ranging from radios
to defence missile guidance systems. Sen. James McClure, an Idaho
Republican, said Baldrige told them the administration had not made a
final determination that Japanese companies had dumped semiconductor
microchips below the cost of production in the United States or other
countries. But McClure said senators told him, "There is no doubt
dumping is going on," based on evidence such as invoices of purchases
of the Japanese products. The two countries signed a pact last
September in which Japan agreed to stop selling its microchips in the
United States and other countries below production costs and to allow
the U.S. semiconductor industry access to the Japanese market. In
return, the United States waived its right to impose import duties on
the Japanese microchips. Japanese officials have said they have lived
up to the pact and have asked Japanese chip-makers to further slash
output to save the pact. Japan has frequently been the target of
congressional discouragement over last year's record 169-billion-dlr
trade deficit. Tokyo had a 59-billion-dlr surplus with the United
States last year and had large surpluses with other countries. The
Senate yesterday unanimously passed a resolution calling for action
against Japan for violations of the pact since September. The
resolution will be introduced in the House next week by Rep. Bob
Matsui, a California Democrat. Reuter 

EC WARNS CONGRESS ON NEW TRADE BILL
    WASHINGTON, March 18 - 
The European Community (EC) has warned the U.S. House of
Representatives that tough trade legislation it is considering could
prompt retaliation by U.S. trading partners. The warning was sent in a
letter from Sir Roy Denman, head of the EC delegation in Washington,
to Dan Rostenkowski, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. A
copy of the letter was made available to Reuters. Denman told
Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat, he backed aspects of the bill,
such as one backing new talks under the GATT and one excluding
protection for the textile industry. But Denman disagreed with other
provisions which would require President Reagan to take retaliatory
trade action against nations with large trade surpluses with the U.S.
and would set new standards for judging unfair foreign trade
practices. Denman told Rostenkowski that GATT regulations prohibit
member nations from taking unilateral retaliatory action in trade
disputes unless the action is GATT-approved. He said "If the Congress
makes retaliatory action mandatory, then the United States would be in
violation of its international legal obligations and on a collision
course with its major trading partners." Denman added that a president
should have flexibility in enforcing trade laws, saying "in the last
resort, any administration must take its decision in light of the
overall national interest." Otherwise, he said, "the risk would be
counter-reaction by trading partners of the United States, i.e.,
retaliation or enactment of mirror image legislation to be employed
against imports from the United States." Denman also said Congress
could prompt retaliation if it reduced the threshhold of unfair trade
by making it easier for firms to file unfair trade practice claims.
Retaliation could also be prompted by relaxing standards for findings
that imports were injuring U.S. firms. "Changes in these standards
must be agreed upon multilaterally. They cannot be imposed by the
United States alone on the world trading system," he said. House
leaders have rejected a plan by textile-state legislators to add to
the trade bill a provision to curb imports of cloth and clothing,
similar to a measure passed two years ago but vetoed by President
Reagan. There was concern by the leaders that Reagan would veto the
entire trade bill because of the textile amendment. Reuter 

JAPAN SAYS IT TRYING TO EXPAND DOMESTIC DEMAND
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - 
Japan has assured a meeting of trade ministers it is making every
effort to expand domestic demand and restructure its economy. Japanese
trade representative Tsomu Hata told an informal General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting that, in addition to demand boosting
measures adopted last September, a comprehensive economic program will
be prepared after the 1987/88 budget is approved. Hata, speaking at
the first session of the two-day meeting, said agriculture is no
exception to the goal of restructuring the economy, but did not
elaborate. Hata said protectionist pressures in the international
economy are as strong as ever, reflecting financial deficits, payment
imbalances and serious unemployment in many countries. Reuter 

U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER OPPOSES TAX INCREASE
    NEW YORK, March 26 - 
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said that he opposes a Federal tax
increase to help reduce the budget deficit and favors spending cuts
instead. "I don't think it's (a tax increase) is a very good idea and
I'm quite confident that President Reagan doesn't think it's a very
good idea," Baker said in an interview on Cable News Network's
"Moneyline" television program. He said U.S. taxpayers are taxed at a
rate of 19 pct of GNP which is traditionally where it has been, but
the Federal Government is spending at a rate of 24 pct of GNP. Baker
said spending cuts are clearly the best way to cut budget deficits.
Baker said he opposed a stock transactions tax proposed by House
Speaker Jim Wright, D-Tex, or other special taxes. "The stock transfer
tax would be a particularly unfortunate approach to take," the
Treasury Secretary said. He said the United States has some of the
most efficient capital markets in the world and new taxes would impair
efficiency. On the international front, Baker said banks must do more
lending to developing countries. He was questioned about this after
the Standard and Poor's Corp downgrading today of the debt of six
major money center bank holding companies, largely because of their
heavy developing nation loan exposure. Baker said that developing
countries must adopt free market economic policies such as in the
United States. He said capital flows will be required to support the
needed reforms in the economic systems of those countries. The money
must come either through equity or debt and Baker said that developing
nations' "investment regimes do not support enough equity investment,
so you've got to have some debt there." Commenting on the U.S. trade
deficit, Baker said "I think you're going to see a 15 to 20 billion
dlr reduction this year." Reuter 

CHIRAC, REAGAN DISCUSS ARMS CONTROL, TRADE
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac opened talks with President
Ronald Reagan expected to focus on superpower arms control moves and
trade issues. French officials said a major aim of Chirac's visit was
to present France's concern that the United States might ignore
European security interests in any accord with Moscow on removing
medium-range nuclear missiles from the continent. But Reagan was
expected to assure Chirac that he will not agree to a deal at the
Geneva superpower talks that would give the Russians superiority in
shorter-range systems, diplomats said. France has expressed doubts
about removing U.S. missiles from Europe so long as the Soviet Union
maintains an edge in other weaponry, particularly shorter-range
rockets, conventional forces and chemical weapons. Speaking last
night, Chirac set out the French position saying: "Any agreement on
intermediate nuclear forces should mention how equality can be
achieved in short-range missiles." Reagan and Chirac meanwhile signed
an agreement ending a dispute between two leading research institutes
over patent rights to a blood screening test for the deadly disease
AIDS. In a joint statement, Chirac and Reagan said the Pasteur
Institute in Paris and the National Cancer Institute, of Bethesda,
Maryland, agreed to give part of the royalties from the test to a new
foundation dedicated to the wordwide fight against AIDS (Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndrome). "This agreement opens a new era in
Franco-American cooperation, allowing France and the United States to
join their efforts to control this terrible disease in the hopes of
speeding the development of an AIDS vaccine and cure," Reagan said at
the signing ceremony. He said the two parties would share the patent
and give 80 per cent of the royalties received to the new foundation.
The foundation would also raise private funds and would donate 25 per
cent of its money to combat AIDS in less developed countries. Both
leaders stressed the long ties between France and the United States
during a welcoming ceremony in the White House East Room, with Reagan
describing France as "America's oldest ally in war and peace." "I have
come to tell you that we are remain motivated by the same ideals of
freedom, by the same will to face the dangers which we both confront
-- terrorism, war, hunger, poverty, new diseases and drugs," Chirac
replied. But the two countries are likely to have less to agree on
over the issue of trade, where Chirac is worried about a rise in
protectionism in the U.S. Congress. A senior U.S. official yesterday
dismissed a French idea to sell cut-price grain to poor countries in
Africa as a way of lessening surplus stocks. Chirac is expected to
canvass support for the idea, first proposed by French Agriculture
Minister Francois Guillaume, during his two-day visit to Washington.
The U.S. official described the idea as a "grain producers' OPEC" -- a
reference to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries -- and
said it went against the Reagan administration's desire to lessen
government intervention in trade. Reuter 

TAIWAN PLANS NEW TARIFF CUTS
    TAIPEI, March 2 - 
Taiwan plans another round of deep tariff cuts this year to help
narrow its trade surplus with the U.S., A senior economic planner
said. Wang Chao-Ming, vice-chairman of the council for economic
planning and development, told Reuters Taiwan would further reduce
import tariffs on 1,700 products sometime in the second half of this
year. Cuts of up to 50 pct on those items were made last year and Wang
said further cuts would go much deeper. "We have to speed up
liberalisation and cut import tariffs faster and more substantially,"
he said. The United States, Taiwan's main trading partner, has said
the island's import tariffs, still ranging from a high of almost 60
pct, were unacceptable. It has criticised the cuts as too selective.
Taiwan's trade surplus with the United States hit 13.6 billion dlrs
last year. The surplus has boosted foreign exchange reserves to 50
billion dlrs, which Wang said made Taiwan a target for U.S.
Protectionism. Wang said the trade surplus and the reserves weakened
Taiwan's position in talks with Washington over export quotas,
particularly for shoes, textiles and machine tools which are among the
island's main export-earners. A special Taiwanese trade delegation
leaves for Washington tomorrow to try to renegotiate an agreement
signed last year limiting exports of Taiwan textiles. Under the
accord, Taiwan's textile export growth was limited to 0.5 pct each
year until 1988. Taipei has said it is losing markets to South Korea
and Hong Kong which were given more generous terms. REUTER... 

CONABLE WARNS PROTECTIONISM MIGHT SPREAD
    WASHINGTON, April 3 - 
World Bank President Barber Conable expressed concern that trade
protectionism, at the heart of a new showdown between the United
States and Japan, might spread throughout the industrial world. But in
an interview with Reuters, Conable said the action by the United
States to slap tariffs on certain electronic goods from Japan did not
mean the countries were heading for a full-scale trade war. Conable
said the World Bank has been pressing developing countries to open
their markets, arguing that a free trading environment increased the
possibility of global economic growth. "We have, in fact, been making
adjustment loans to many countries in the developing world which have
encouraged the opening of their markets and we want to be sure that
the developed world doesn't close at the same time," he said. He said
the U.S. action against Japan was "a significant retaliatory step but
it did not constitute a basic change in trade policy." The interview
came just before next week's semi-annual meetings of the Bank and the
International Monetary Fund. Referring to Brazil's recent interest
payments moratorium, Conable also said the global debt situation was
very serious and must be closely watched. He said the Bank, which in
the past has concentrated on making loans that assist the basic
underpinnings in the developing world such as dams, roads and sewers,
will increasingly make assistance available for economic reform. The
Bank has increased these loans, in part because of the debt crisis
that has found countries desperately in need of new funds for balance
of payments adjustment and economic reforms aimed at opening their
markets, encouraging foreign investment and reducing government's role
in the economy. "We're comfortable with adjustment lending, we expect,
however, that it will never reach a majority of our portfolio,"
Conable said. He made clear, however, that adjustment lending would
continue to increase as a proportion of overall Bank lending for some
time. He noted, "the problem of debt was a severe one and many
countries are asking for adjustment assistance because of the problem
of debt." Conable, is a a former Republican Congressman from New York
chosen by President Reagan for the Bank position last year. He is an
associate of Treasury Secertary James Baker who launched the U.S.
strategy for shoring up indebted nations in October, 1985 which
included a call for increased adjustment lending by the World Bank.
Conable also said that he expected the result of a major study of the
Bank's organization to be completed in the next several weeks. He said
the decision to seek a reorganization was based, in part, on the fact
that the Bank had come under fire from the poorest countries for not
doing enough to help and from the richest countries because of
inefficiency. the reorganization is considered a major initiative by
Conable, and is being closely-watched by the agency's 151 member-
countries as an indication of his management style and priorities. "I
want to be sure this institution is viewed by those who must support
it as soundly constituted so that it will be permitted to grow,"
Conable said. However, he said "I don't believe there is anything
basically wrong with this institution and I don't believe it has to
have any redefinition of its purpose." He said, however, that it was
apparent that the debt initiative proposed by Baker has given the Bank
a central role in dealing with the debt crisis. Conable added that
cooperation between the Bank and its sister agency, the International
Monetary Fund, was good and that he talked often with IMF Managing
Director Michel Camdessus on a variety of issues. On a personal level,
Conable said that he not feel a need to put his personal stamp on the
Bank noting that "I don't have a particular mission here except to be
useful to the institution and to the process of development." He
added, "so I don't feel a great calling to personalize the
institution." On the development needs of sub-Sahara Africa, Conable
said that the Bank was constantly reviewing new ways for assisting the
region, noting that half of the recently agreed financing of 12.4
billion dlrs for Bank's International Development Association was
earmarked for Africa. Leading industrial nations are expected to
consider new forms of debt relief for the very poorest nations, like
those in the Sub-Sahara, during next week's meetings. Reuter 

BRAZIL'S TRADE SURPLUS DOUBLED IN FEBRUARY
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 16 - 
Brazil's trade surplus doubled in February to 261 mln dlrs from
January's 129 mln but was well below the 628 mln dlrs of February last
year, official figures show. Director of the Banco do Brasil's foreign
trade department (CACEX), Roberto Fendt, told reporters the upturn in
February confirmed a rising trend in exports which totalled 1.53
billion dlrs against 1.26 billion in January and, after excluding
coffee and oil derivatives, was only slightly below the same month
last year. Coffee earnings were down to 110 mln dlrs against 295 mln
in February, 1986, because of lower prices, he added. Fendt said
although the February results were lower than the average expected for
the rest of the year, the government's target of an eight billion dlr
surplus for 1987 should be achieved. This would compare with a 1986
surplus of 9.5 billion dlrs. Exports this year are expected to total
22.5 billion dlrs and imports 14.5 billion, he added. In 1986 exports
totalled 22.4 billion dlrs and imports 12.9 billion. Fendt said the
rise in imports in February to 1.27 billion dlrs from 1.12 billion in
February last year was in line with government plans to foster
economic growth. Fendt said imports were running at levels well above
the traditional average for Brazil. Imports in the first two months of
the year, excluding oil and wheat, totalled 1.8 billion dlrs against
1.47 billion in the same 1986 period. This rise reflected industry's
need for equipment to raise production and is perfectly compatible
with the government's program for economic growth, Fendt added. Reuter






GATT WARNS U.S. ON FEDERAL BUDGET, PROTECTIONISM
     GENEVA, March 27 - 
The United States' emphasis on its foreign trade deficit is misplaced
and the country's real problem lies in its large federal budget
deficit, the General Agreeement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) said. By
stressing its record trade deficit of 169.8 billion dlrs last year,
the U.S. Was fuelling protectionist pressure which threatens the world
trading system, it said in an annual report. The fundamental problem,
the size of the U.S. Federal budget deficit, could be remedied only by
cutting government spending or encouraging personal savings to finance
the debt, it said. GATT also predicted world trade would grow by only
2.5 pct in 1987 -- a full percentage point lower than in each of the
previous two years. GATT experts urged Washington to resist
protectionism and instead seek macroeconomic changes to reduce the
current account payments deficit -- higher private savings, lower
investment and a smaller federal budget deficit. Raising U.S. Trade
barriers "would result in little or no reduction in the current
account deficit. It would, however, increase inflation and reduce
world trade," it said. "The basic cause -- some combination of
insufficient domestic savings and an excessive budget deficit -- would
remain," the report said. GATT economists said trade expansion would
slow this year because of slower growth forecasts in Japan and some
West European nations as they adjust production and workforces to a
low dollar, risk of higher U.S. Inflation, concerns over Third World
debt management and looming protectionism. The report also said
imbalances in the current accounts of Japan, West Germany and the U.S.
Had increased in 1986. The most likely explanation was that exchange
rate changes were not backed by changes in macroeconomic policies, it
added. "Thus the prediction that these imbalances would be reduced as
a result of the major realignment of exchange rates was not borne out
last year," the report said. GATT warned there was a risk of a
sizeable increase in the U.S. Inflation rate under the combined impact
of a rapidly expanding money supply and low dollar. "Such a
development could worsen the business climate by increasing
uncertainty and pushing up interest rates, which, in turn, would
adversely affect world trade." But the report noted a surprising rise
in imports to the United States, despite the dollar's depreciation
which makes foreign products more expensive. It suggested that
resources idle in the U.S., Both human and in underutilised factories,
were not geared to produce the goods and services sought from abroad.
World trade in manufactures grew by only three pct in 1986, about half
of the rate of the previous year. Trade in agricultural goods expanded
by just one pct, continuing a stagnant pattern in that sector this
decade, GATT said. Developing countries' exports declined
significantly, while their imports increased moderately, although full
statistics are not available yet, GATT said. The combined export
earnings of 16 major indebted nations were sharply lower, and only
five of them (Chile, Colombia, Philippines, South Korea, and Thailand)
had higher exports. REUTER 

TREASURY'S BAKER SEES 15-20 BILLION DLR U.S. TRADE DEFICIT REDUCTION THIS YEAR




U.S. STOCK MARKET OVERREACTS TO TARIFFS - YEUTTER
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said the stock market
overreacted to a U.S. decision last week to proceed with tariffs on
some Japanese computer products. Speaking to reporters prior to
testifying at a House Agriculture Committee hearing, Yeutter said it
is "difficult to comprehend" that a trade decision affecting only 300
mln dlrs in goods caused the stock market collapse yesterday. "I have
a hunch a lot of other things were involved in that (stock market
fall), including simple profit-taking," Yeutter said. Yeutter said
Japan would be sending a senior official from its trade ministry to
Washington next week for talks on the computer chip dispute. "We will
be glad to have him here, but that's not going to affect a decision
that's already been made," Yeutter said. The decision announced last
week would apply higher tariffs on a range of Japanese products in
retaliation for the alleged failure of Tokyo to honor an agreement
with the U.S. on semiconductor trade. Reuter 

U.S. CHIPMAKERS URGE SANCTIONS AGAINST JAPAN
    WASHINGTON, March 25 - 
The Semiconductor Industry Association urged the U.S. government to
impose trade sanctions against Japan for violating the U.S.-Japan
Semiconductor Trade Agreement. In a letter to Treasury Secretary James
Baker the group said sanctions should be imposed against Japanese
chipmakers as of April 1 and continue until the U.S. is satisfied
there is full compliance with the agreement. The group said action by
Japan to cut back on semiconductor exports is not what is required.
"America's interests require that agreements be honored and that U.S.
industries not bear the burden for the persistent unwillingness or
inability of the government of Japan to deliver on its commitments,"
the trade group said. The White House Economic Policy Council is
expected to discuss possible sanctions against Japan at a meeting
scheduled for Thursday. The trade group said Japan has not lived up to
the terms of the agreement last year which was aimed at ending
Japanese dumping of semiconductors and at opening Japanese markets to
foreign-based manufacturers. Reuter 

GATT ROUND MAY STOP GROWING TRADE PROBLEMS - U.S.
    TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - 
A successful new GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) round
is needed to halt growing bilateral trade problems between major
trading partners, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said.
Yeutter, in New Zealand for informal GATT ministerial talks, told
Reuters bilateral trade disputes are increasing because the
multilateral system is inefficient. "That is really a strong rationale
why we need a new GATT round," he said. "The very existence of all
these bilateral irritants clearly emphasises the need to develop
multilateral solutions to some of these problems." The eighth GATT
round of negotiations was launched at Punta del Este in Uruguay in
September 1986. Agriculture and services were included in the
negotiations for the first time. The growing debt burden of Latin
American and African nations will also provide impetus for the GATT
round to succeed, he said. "Clearly those countries need to develop
their export endeavours and they need open markets for that to happen
and that's the basic objective of the new GATT round," he said. But he
said the GATT round is a long term endeavour. It will not give any
short term relief for debt ridden countries, but it will make a
difference in 10 to 15 years. "It's a worthwhile activity from their
standpoint because these debts are not going to go away in the next
year or two," he said. "They ought to be very strongly supported in
the GATT round as a mechanism for relieving their debt burdens or
making possible debt amortisation in the future," he said. REUTER 

FINLAND FEBRUARY TRADE SURPLUS AT 641 MLN MARKKA
    HELSINKI, March 23 - 
Finland had a 641 mln markka trade surplus in February following an 80
mln markka surplus in January and a 614 mln surplus in February 1986,
Customs Board preliminary figures showed. Exports in February were
6.38 billion markka and imports 5.74 billion compared with exports of
6.72 billion and imports of 6.64 billion in January and exports of
6.92 billion and imports of 6.31 billion in February last year. REUTER


CANADA JANUARY TRADE SURPLUS 533 MLN DLRS AFTER DECEMBER 965 MLN DLRS SURPLUS




