PICKENS SEES CONTINUED SLUMP IN WORKING RIGS
     DALLAS, March 9 - 
T. Boone Pickens, the Texas oilman and financier, said he believes the
heady days the oil service industry had in the early 1980s, when over
4,500 oil rigs were once reported operating, will not return in his
lifetime. Pickens told Reuters he expects the rig count to drop to
below 600 before recovering. He added that oil prices will eventually
rise to 35 dlrs, then to 50 dlrs after 1990. Currently, some 700 oil
rigs are operating in the U.S., down sharply after oil prices slipped
from 30 dlrs in late 1985 to around 10 dlrs in 1986. Prices are now
around 18 dlrs. The highest number of working rigs was 4,500 in
December 1981. "The rigs won't go back to work until the price of oil
gets above 30 dlrs," he said, adding that while he expects to see 50
dlr a barrel oil, he does not expect to see 2,000 rigs operating in
his lifetime. Pickens is 58. Pickens, who is currently touring the
country promoting his autobiography "Boone," said he does not believe
the U.S. should impose an oil import fee in order to stimulate the
domestic oil industry. Reuter 





IMPERIAL OIL <IMO.A> IN TALKS WITH SUPPLIERS
    TORONTO, March 31 - 
Imperial Oil Ltd, 70 pct-owned by Exxon Corp <XON>, is negotiating
with it major crude oil suppliers concerning the effects of a trial
deregulation of Alberta's shut-in crude oil production, scheduled to
be implemented on June 1, a company spokesman said. "From our point of
view, it's a question of entering into negotiations or discussions to
make appropriate changes to contracts to reflect the changes that are
going to take place on June 1," spokesman John Cote told Reuters in
reply to a query. Commenting on published reports that Imperial had
suspended its oil supply contracts, Cote said: "It's not a question of
cancelling or suspending any of the agreements at this point." On June
1, Alberta's Energy Resources Conservation Board will lift its crude
oil marketing prorationing system, regulating shut-in light and medium
crude production, on a trial basis to the end of 1987. Under the new
system, producers and refiners will be allowed to negotiate volumes of
shut-in oil to be delivered under purchase contracts. Shut-in crude is
the surplus between the total amount of oil being produced and the
amount being purchased by refiners. "We have talked to a number of our
major suppliers, and we've discussed the upcoming change with them,
but nothing has been finalized," Imperial's manager of western crude
supply Gary Strong said. Under Alberta's trial system, Imperial wants
to match a reasonable supply of crude against the company's forecast
demand for its refineries, Strong said. "We have to know what they
have and how that relates to what we need in total," he said. Strong
said figures on the amount of crude production Imperial purchases from
outside suppliers were not immediately available. Reuter 

MEXICAN FIRST QTR CRUDE EXPORTS SEEN AT 15.25 DLRS
    MEXICO CITY, March 30 - 
The average price of mexico's crude oil exports in first quarter 1987
will be 15.25 dlrs per barrel, according to preliminary figures issued
in a press release by the state oil company Petroleos Mexicanos
(PEMEX). It gave no direct comparison with the year-ago figure but
said crude and products sales were expected to rise to 1.99 billion
dlrs this quarter, 420 mln dlrs higher than expected and 22 pct better
than the year-ago quarter. Prospects for the second quarter were
relatively favourable with crude exports seen at 1.320 mln bpd after
an expected 1.324 mln this month, 1.323 in February and 1.395 mln in
January. REUTER 

MOBIL PLANS TO OPEN OFFICE IN PEKING
     PEKING, March 3 - 
Mobil Oil Corp of U.S. Plans to open an office in Peking to develop
oil exploration opportunities in China, the China Daily said. It
quoted Mobil president Richard Tucker, currently in Peking, as saying
he is optimistic about investment prospects in China and that Peking
will continue to encourage foreign private businesses to invest here.
It said Mobil bought 73 mln dlrs of crude oil and oil products from
China in 1986 and sold it lubricant and fertiliser, but gave no more
details. Reuter 

USX <X> UNIT RAISES SOME CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, March 9 - 
Marathon Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of USX Corp <X>, said it
raised the contract price it pays for three grades of crude oil,
effective March 6. Illinois Sweet and Indiana Sweet are both being
raised 50 cts a barrel to 16.75 dlrs/bbl, and the Southern Michigan
grade is being raised 25 cts/bbl, also to 16.75 dlrs a bbl. The West
Texas Intermediate grade was unchanged. Reuter 

COLOMBIA'S MAIN OIL PIPELINE ATTACKED
    BOGOTA, April 3 - 
State-run oil company Ecopetrol said Colombia's main oil pipeline was
bombed again and pumping of 170,000 barrels per day was suspended. A
spokeswoman for the company said that the early morning dynamite
attack was the 31st in the last nine months on the Cano Limon-Covenas
pipeline, which links Colombia's biggest oilfied at Cravo Norte to the
Caribbean. She said about 2,000 barrels of crude were spilled and
could not indicate when pumping would resume. The attack was near
Magangue in northeastern Bolivar province. Ecopetrol is exploiting
Cravo Norte in association with Occidental Petroleum Corp <OXY> and
Shell Petroleum N.V., a unit of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <ST>.
Ecopetrol said in a communique that bombings since last July led to a
loss of more than 110,000 barrels of crude, or the equivalent of 10
mln dlrs. Reuter 

ENERGY/CALIFORNIA OIL PRODUCTION
    LOS ANGELES, March 4 - 
Drilling for oil in California is likely to continue at last year's
sharply reduced levels despite recent gains in crude oil prices,
industry analysts said. Because much of the crude oil in California
fields is thick, heavy and expensive to extract, oil prices would have
to increase to near 1985's levels before any significant recovery is
seen in drilling, they said. "Companies will probably only drill their
best prospects," said John Curti, an analyst with Birr Wilson
Securities Inc. Few new wells now are being drilled. Only 33 rigs,
about one-quarter of the total available, were drilling for oil
onshore in California last week, compared to about 70 last year, said
Bill Bolster of Munger Oil Information Services, which tracks
California drilling activity. "It's in the dregs right now," said
Bolster of the state's drilling activity. Current prices are not
enough to justify increased drilling, said Ed Malmgreen of the
California Independent Producers Association. While an Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries pact to curb production boosted oil
prices early this year, prices eventually fell. Prices for
California's marker grade, Line 63 blend, have slumped about 20 pct in
the last month to 14 dlrs from a high of about 17 dlrs. More than half
of California's oil comes from stripper wells, those producing less
than 10 barrels a day, and that much of that oil costs between 18 and
25 dlrs a barrel to extract, Malmgreen said. "It's not unusual for a
stripper well to cost 18 dlrs," Malmgreen said. Many stripper wells
along the southern California coast produce eight times as much water
as crude oil, and inland wells frequently require the use of steam
injection to spur extraction of the thick, heavy oil, he said. The
outlook for future production in California is clouded by a lack of
exploratory drilling now, analysts said. In the heart of California's
oil patch, Kern County, which produces about two-thirds of the state's
oil, exploratory drilling has slowed to a crawl. Only 55 exploratory
wells were drilled in Kern County in 1986, compared to 137 in 1985,
according to David Mitchell of the state energy commission. So far
this year only five exploratory wells have been drilled. "I don't
think they'll even get to what they did last year," Mitchell said. No
pickup in exploratory drilling is likely for the rest of the decade,
Mitchell said. Along with the fall in drilling has come a decrease in
the number of producing wells and overall production. Between February
and October of 1986, the number of producing oil wells in California
fell 14 pct to 43,521 from more than 50,000, said Bill Guerard of the
California Energy Commission. In line with that decrease, California's
crude oil output fell about 10 pct last year due to low oil prices and
is expected to remain at that lower level, analysts said. Between
February and October 1986, California's crude oil production slipped
from an all-time high of 1.185 mln barrels per day to 1.066 mln bpd,
Guerard said. Total estimated crude oil production in California for
1986 was 408 mln bbls, compared with 424 mln bbls in 1985 and 405 mln
bbl in 1983, according to the California Department of Conservation.
"Production in 1987 will probably hold around 1986 levels," Guerard
said. Reuter 

MADAGASCAR EXTENDS AMOCO OIL EXPLORATION AGREEMENT
    ANTANANARIVO, March 25 - 
Madagascar extended its oil exploration agreement with the U.S. Firm
Amoco Corp <AN> for 17 months to allow for further studies of the
Morondava basin on the southwest coast, a government statement said.
It said the existing five-year agreement, due to expire this July 24,
was extended until the end of 1988 to allow for additional geological
and geophysical studies. Amoco has so far laid 7,100 km of seismic
lines and sunk five exploration wells in the Morondava basin. It may
drill a further three wells before the end of the extended exploration
period, the statement said. Madagascar has signed oil exploration
agreements with four foreign oil companies since 1981. But despite
promising indications of large reserves, no commercial production
plans have yet been announced. The foreign firms - Amoco, Occidental
Petroleum Corp <OXY>, Mobil Corp <MOB> and a unit of <Ente Nazionale
Idrocarburi> - are working in partnership with the National Military
Office for Strategic Industries (OMNIS). Roland Ratsimandresy, the
director general of OMNIS, said at a ceremenony to sign the extension
of the Amoco agreement that his department would intensify oil
exploration with its existing partners and would soon offer a new
round of exploration licences. REUTER 

SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSIT RATES REMAIN FIRM
    BAHRAIN, March 1 - 
Saudi riyal interbank deposits were steady at yesterday's higher
levels in a quiet market. Traders said they were reluctant to take out
new positions amidst uncertainty over whether OPEC will succeed in
halting the current decline in oil prices. Oil industry sources said
yesterday several Gulf Arab producers had had difficulty selling oil
at official OPEC prices but Kuwait has said there are no plans for an
emergency meeting of the 13-member organisation. A traditional Sunday
lull in trading due to the European weekend also contributed to the
lack of market activity. Spot-next and one-week rates were put at
6-1/4, 5-3/4 pct after quotes ranging between seven, six yesterday.
One, three, and six-month deposits were quoted unchanged at 6-5/8,
3/8, 7-1/8, 6-7/8 and 7-3/8, 1/8 pct respectively. The spot riyal was
quietly firmer at 3.7495/98 to the dollar after quotes of 3.7500/03
yesterday. REUTER 

VENEZUELA-ECUADOR OIL LOAN UNDER DISCUSSION
    CARACAS, March 17 - 
Venezuela has still to work out final details of its plan to supply
Ecuador with 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil to compensate that
country for lost exports caused by earthquake damage, a senior
Petroleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) official said. "We have yet to finalize
details on how the compensation will be carried out and how OPEC
production quotas will be affected," he said during the signing of a
joint venture deal with Union Pacific Corp today. He said an agreement
was initialled on a visit last week by Ecuador's deputy energy
minister Fernando Santos Alvite. He pointed out that there are some
contractual points to be considered. Venezuela, possibly unique among
oil exporters, requires its clients to sign final destination clauses
to ensure its oil is not resold on the spot market. Ecuador's oil
minister Javier Espinosa was quoted today as saying Venezuela will
export the oil on Ecuador's account and remit the revenues to Quito.
Ecuador would pay back the oil at a rate of 35,000 bpd. He said
Venezuela's oil would be traded through Ecuadorean state oil company
Cepe, but the PDVSA official said the company never allows third
parties to trade its oil. Reuter 

FITZWATER SAYS REAGAN STRONGLY AGAINST TAX HIKE
    WASHINGTON, March 9 - 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Reagan's record
in opposing tax hikes is "long and strong" and not about to change.
"We're opposed to tax increases.... We will fight tax increases.... We
will deal with it politically in every forum possible," said Fitzwater
when questioned about whether there was any change in the
administration's position. Fitzwater said Reagan's strong feelings
against a tax hike included opposition to an oil import fee. "The
President's position is that he is opposed to it," he said. REUTER 

WEATHER CLOSES ALEXANDRIA PORT, SUMED OIL TERMINAL
    ALEXANDRIA, Egypt, March 13 - 
Strong winds and high seas forced the closure of Egypt's main port of
Alexandria and a nearby oil terminal, port officials said. Tanker
loading at the Suez-Mediterranean Arab Petroleum Pipelines Co in Sedi
Kerir, southwest of here, stopped and officials said five tankers were
at anchorage awaiting improved weather. Reuter 

REAGAN SAYS U.S. MUST DO MORE TO LESSEN RELIANCE ON FOREIGN OIL




CALTEX TO RAISE BAHRAIN OIL PRODUCT PRICES
    NEW YORK, March 24 - 
Caltex Petroleum Corp said it will raise posted prices for naphtha and
several grades of residual fuel in Bahrain, effective March 25.
Caltex, a joint venture of Chevron Corp <CHV> and Texaco INC <TX>,
said its naphtha posting is up four cts a gallon to 43 cts. It said it
is raising its marine diesel oil posting by 30 cts a barrel to 20.24
dlrs a barrel. Light, medium, and heavy fuel oil postings are up 1.50
dlrs a barrel, the company said. This will bring the light fuel oil
price to 16.90 dlrs, medium to 15.50 dlrs, and heavy to 14.60 dlrs,
the company said. Reuter 

CONOCO RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES UP TO ONE DLR BARREL, WTI AT 17.50 DLRS




MARATHON RAISES CRUDE POSTED PRICES 50 CTS A BBL, EFFECTIVE TODAY, WTI AT 17 DLRS/BBL.




ECUADOR TO EXPORT NO OIL FOR FOUR MONTHS, OFFICIAL
    QUITO, March 9 - 
The suspension of Ecuador's crude oil shipments after an earthquake
cut an oil pipeline will last at least four months, a senior Energy
Ministry official said. The official said Ecuador could resume exports
after repairing a 40 km section of the 510 km pipeline, which links
jungle oil fields at Lago Agrio to Balao on the Pacific coast. It
would take about 100 mln U.S. Dlrs to repair the pipeline, the
official, who did not want to be named, told Reuters. Ecuador had
enough oil to meet domestic demand for about 35 days and would have to
import crude to supplement stocks. The earthquake last Thursday night
registered six on the 12-point international Mercalli scale. The
damage to the pipeline was a severe economic blow to Ecuador, where
oil accounts for up to two-thirds of total exports and as much as 60
pct of government revenues. Financially pressed Ecuador, a member of
the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), was recently
pumping about 260,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude, about 50,000 bpd
above the output quota assigned by the cartel, another Energy Ministry
spokesman said. Last year, it exported an average of 173,500 bpd,
according to the central bank. However, Ecuador might build an
emergency 25 km pipeline, costing 15 to 20 mln dlrs, to hook up with a
Colombian pipeline, the first official said. He estimated it could
take about 60 days to build. Ecuador, squeezed by the slide in world
oil prices in 1986, had only 138 mln dlrs in net international
reserves at the end of January, about equal to one month's imports. It
suspended interest payments in January on 5.4 billion dlrs owed to
about 400 private foreign banks. The country's total foreign debt is
8.16 billion dlrs, the eighth largest in Latin America. In Caracas,
President Jaime Lusinchi said Venezuela would loan five mln barrels of
crude to Ecuador over the next three months to make up for losses from
damage to the pipeline. Ecuador asked for the loan to guarantee
domestic supplies and would ship an equivalent volume back to
Venezuela in repayment in May, Lusinchi said. A commission headed by
Venezuelan Investment Fund Minister Hector Hurtado and including
representatives from the interior and defence ministries and the state
oil company Petroleos de Venezuela will travel to Ecuador Tuesday to
evaluate and co-ordinate an emergency relief program, he said. REUTER


SUN RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS ONE DLR ACROSS BOARD. WTI NOW 17.00 DLRS/BBL




U.S. SHOULD REASSESS MIDEAST POLICY - ANALYST
     SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, March 30 - 
The U.S. should reassess its Mideast policy in light of its rising
dependence on imported oil, according to Charles Ebinger of the Center
for Strategic and International Studies. "The prospect of rising
dependence on oil imports from the Gulf, and the recent revelations of
the Tower Commission report, mandate more than ever before the need
for a fundamental reassessment of U.S. interests in the Middle East,"
Ebinger said. He remarks were made in an address to the National
Petroleum Refiners Association meeting. "Although in the short run it
is difficult to see a direct link between Arab anger and threats to
oil supplies, in the current environment it will be increasingly
difficult for moderate Arab leaders to be seen as friendly to U.S.
interests," Ebinger said. Oil traders said threats to oil supplies has
kept crude oil prices strong recently although some believe prices
will be weaker if demand falls in the spring. But William Randol,
analyst at First Boston Corp, said crude oil prices will hold near
current levels this spring. There will be no spring downturn, said
Randol, speaking at the annual refiner meeting. He said there is a 40
pct chance that crude oil prices could move higher in the second half
of the year, following an OPEC meeting scheduled for late June. He
said he expects OPEC will extend its current agreement to restrict
production. OPEC will renew its production pricing agreement in June
because the value of the oil exports of the OPEC producers has
declined along with the U.S. dollar, Randol said. OPEC oil exports are
priced in U.S. dollars, and the dollar has fallen about 30 pct in the
last 18 months. Randol said U.S. crude oil imports will increase 3.5
to four mln barrels per day by 1990 as consumption rises 1.5 to two
mln bpd, and supplies decline two mln bpd. Reuter 

API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 7.35 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 2.89 MLN, CRUDE OFF 4.39 MLN 




DIAMOND SHAMROCK RAISES CRUDE POSTED PRICES ONE DLR, EFFECTIVE MARCH 4, WTI NOW 17.00 DLRS/BBL




ABU DHABI TO REOPEN GULF OILFIELD HIT IN 1986 RAID
    ABU DHABI, March 25 - 
Abu Dhabi's offshore Abu al-Bukhoosh oilfield in the Gulf, shut since
an aerial attack last November, will reopen when new anti-aircraft
defences are ready, and this could be in the next two months, oil
industry sources said. They said the Abu Dhabi government and
Compagnie Francaise des Petroles (Total) <TPN.PA>, whose Total Abu al-
Bukhoosh subsidiary owns 51 pct of the field, have agreed on the
reopening, but that a date has not been definitely fixed. Unidentified
planes hit the field, 100 miles off Abu Dhabi, last November 25. The
raid killed eight workers and destroyed the main living quarters and a
bridge linking a wellhead to the main production platform. Western
diplomats in the region say Iran was responsible but Tehran has blamed
its Gulf War enemy Iraq. Abu al-Bukhoosh was producing 57,000 barrels
per day (bpd) at the time of the attack, but the sources said it would
resume at a maximum of half that level because of reduced staff and
the fact only four of five wellheads were now operable. The sources
said only 80 personnel can be housed in remaining accomodations, the
sources said. Facilities being installed to protect the field include
aircraft detection equipment, anti-aircraft missiles, housing for
military personnel and helicopter landing pads, the sources said. Abu
Dhabi is the largest oil producer in the United Arab Emirates,
accounting for about 800,000 bpd of its total 1.15 mln bpd production,
the sources said. They also said Iran was working to reopen its Sassan
field, part of the same reservoir as Abu al-Bukhoosh and located only
a few miles away. Sassan was heavily damaged by an Iraqi air raid only
10 days before Abu al-Bukhoosh was attacked. REUTER 

THATCHER DEFENDS UK OIL POLICY IN SAUDI INTERVIEW
    JEDDAH, March 25 - 
British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher denied in an interview
published in Saudi Arabia today that her government's oil policy
contributed to weakness in world oil prices. She said the government
was determined not to intervene to influence production decisions by
oil companies operating in the North Sea. "We believe these must be a
matter for the commercial judgment of the oil companies," she told the
Arabic language daily al-Sharq al-Awsat in an interview coinciding
with a visit to London by King Fahd of Saudi Arabia. Thatcher said
this policy had not contributed to the fall in oil prices as North Sea
production was now about the same as in 1984 when prices were close to
30 dlrs a barrel. British production was on a plateau and was unlikely
to increase in the future, she said. "We naturally share the concern
of Saudi Arabia and other OPEC members about the harmful effects of
oil market volatility for both producer and consumer countries,"
Thatcher said. "On our part, we are careful to avoid any actions which
might add to such volatility." REUTER 

EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 8.8 MLN, GASOLINE OFF 500,000, CRUDE OFF 1.2 MLN




PETROBRAS SEES RAISING EXPORT OF FUEL IN 1987
    RIO DE JANEIRO, April 3 - 
Brazil's state oil company Petrobras is pledging to export 4.6 mln
cubic meters of fuel, or 28.9 mln barrels in 1987, a company spokesman
said. He said that represents a total sale worth 600 mln dlrs. The
volume is 27 pct higher over 1986 sales, which totalled 3.6 mln cubic
meters, or 22.6 mln barrels. The United States, Africa and Latin
American are Brazil's main fuel buyers, the spokesman said. Reuter 

SAUDIS DROP CONDITION FOR OIL SALE TO BRAZIL
    RIO DE JANEIRO, MARCH 13 - 
Saudi Arabia has dropped its condition that Brazil secure
international bank guarantees before Saudia Arabia would ship it oil,
the state-oil company, Petrobras, said in a statement. Petrobras said
the Saudis will accept Banco do Brasil credit guarantees. Petrobras
cancelled a 40-mln dlr crude oil purchase from the Saudis yesterday
after they refused to accept a letter of credit from the official Bank
of Brazil. The Saudis had demanded that Brazil get credit guarantees
from leading international banks. Petrobras said the Saudis had been
advised that if they did not change their mind by Monday, Petrobras
would negotiate the purchase of oil with other producers. The
Petrobras statement said the shipment of 2.2 mln barrels will be made
by the Saudis on March 24 as scheduled. The shipment is part contract
signed in February for the Saudis to supply Brazil with 125,000
barrels per day until June. Reuter 

OPEC REAFFIRMS COMMITMENT TO FIXED PRICES, CEILING
    LAGOS, March 11 - 
OPEC has reaffirmed its commitment to fixed crude oil prices of around
18 dlrs a barrel and an overall output ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels per
day (bpd) to defend prices, its president Rilwanu Lukman said. He told
a news conference here "After due consultation with my colleagues in
OPEC, I hereby wish to emphasize that Nigeria and all member countries
of OPEC remain determined to uphold the December agreement by adhering
strictly to their various quotas and official selling prices." Lukman
added no extraordinary OPEC conference was planned. "We are in a
position to re-confirm that, despite misleading news in foreign media
to the contrary, ... OPEC member countries as a whole produced below
their agreed quota in the month of February," Lukman, who is Nigerian
oil minister, said. Lukman put the overall OPEC output shortfall in
February at 900,000 bpd and said this was as a result of their firm
determination to defend official selling prices of 18 dlrs agreed upon
last December in Geneva. The December agreement set an overall output
ceiling for OPEC of 15.8 mln bpd for first half 1987 and restored
fixed prices as from February 1 around a reference point of 18 dlrs.
Oil prices rallied immediately after the Geneva accord but fell again
last month on reports that OPEC was producing more than the agreed
level. "The idea was to suggest that OPEC's agreement would not hold
and this caused some customers to hold back purchases of OPEC oil and
resort to destocking to meet their needs," Lukman said. He said the
900,000 bpd shortfall last February was based on the verified figure
for 10 out of OPEC's 13 members, adding that Nigeria alone had a
shortfall in production of 100,000 bpd. Iraq disassociated itself from
the December agreement, while the production figures of Ecuador and
the United Arab Emirates needed to be verified, Lukman said. "If that
is the price we have to pay to make the agreement succeed, we are
ready ... OPEC is not changing its price level of 18 dlrs," the
group's president said. He said the OPEC price differentials committee
meeting formerly postponed to April had been put off indefinitely.
"Furthermore, no extraordinary meeting of the conference is at the
moment contemplated since most agreements reached in December are
being adhered to," he said. Asked if the committee did not need to
meet soon to narrow the gaps in the prices of the various OPEC crudes
-- fixed in relation to the 18 dlr benchmark -- Lukman replied "We
consider the defence of our prices much more crucial than
differentials." Lukman said OPEC was aware that consumers had heavily
drawn on stocks of both crude oil and refined products to levels well
below this time last year and soon they would return to the market in
search of crude. "We don't see that there is going to be any
difficulty in maintaining the 18 dlr price throughout the rest of the
year," Lukman said. The OPEC president praised non-OPEC oil producers,
which he said had contributed to the group's efforts to stabilise
prices, but he criticised Britain for maintaining its long-held view
not to do anything to help the market. "We are quite confident,
however, that in the long-term with two-thirds of the world's reserves
in OPEC hands, the future is ours. We will use that advantage
responsibly," he said. Lukman described the disruption in Ecuador's
output following an earthquake as tragic, but refused to say if the
South American country would be allowed a higher output quota when it
recovered from the disaster. REUTER 

BANK SEES MODEST RECOVERY IN GULF ARAB ECONOMIES
    ABU DHABI, March 29 - 
The Emirates Industrial Bank has predicted a modest economic recovery
in the Gulf Arab states following higher oil revenues. A bank study,
carried by the Emirates news agency WAM, said total oil revenues of
the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries were likely to reach
39 billion dlrs this year from 33.5 billion in 1986. The GCC groups
Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates (UAE). The bank said the improvement would result from higher
oil prices made possible by last December's OPEC accord to restrain
overall group production. These curbs have pushed up oil prices from
around eight dollars a barrel in mid-1986 to around 18 dlrs. "All
signs point to the possibility of a modest recovery in the economies
of these (GCC) countries, although this expected growth will not be
similar to that of the (1970s) boom years," the study said. It added,
however, that GCC states would experience higher budget deficits this
year because of needs arising from past recession and the difficulty
of making fresh spending cuts. The study said the combined GCC bugdet
deficits would rise to 23.2 billion dlrs from 17.9 billion last year.
It said lower oil exports cut the GCC states' combined trade surplus
to 18 billion dlrs in 1986 from 21.5 billion in 1985. The UAE suffered
a 19.5 pct drop in gross domestic product to 77.6 billion dirhams last
year from 96.4 billion in 1985, it added. REUTER 

ORS SEEKS CANADIAN FUNDS FOR HEAVY OIL TEST
    TULSA, Okla., March 13 - 
<ORS Corp> said <Dominion Securities (Alberta) Inc> has been appointed
to offer common shares in a new Canadaina company being organized to
exploit heavy oil production opportunities in Canada and Western
Europe. ORS said the offer for private sale of the stock being made on
a best efforts basis is designed to raise five mln Canadian dlrs which
the new company will invest in properties and projects using the
Electromagnetic Well Stimulation Process developed by IIT Research
Institute under sponsorship of ORS. Reuter 

STANDARD OIL RAISES ALASKA NORTH SLOPE BY 1.50 DLRS, effective APRIL ONE




WILDLIFE UNIT PROPOSES ALASKA REFUGE OIL STUDY
    WASHINGTON, March 12 - 
The National Wildlife Federation rejected an Interior Department draft
plan to open wilderness lands in Northern Alaska to oil and gas
exploration. The federation, the nation's largest conservation group,
said further study was needed to assess any possible damage that
development might have on the wildlife in the area, the coastal plain
of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Jay Hair, the federation's
executive vice president, called the Interior's research into the
effects of development "so fundamentally flawed that it provides
little or no basis on which to make a public policy decision." Hair
called the department's proposal a "reflection of a largely political
decision," adding "we have no confidence in Interior to represent the
broad public interest in this area." Interior wants to open the 1.5
million acre coastal plain to oil and gas exploration, but it said
only with tough safeguards to protect the area's caribou and musk-
oxen. It said a preliminary survey showed the region could hold
billions of barrels of oil and gas, and that its potential as an
energy resource would never be known without exploration. Interior
said oil on the coastal plain could match the 10 billion barrels found
at Prudhoe Bay, just west of the plain. Under existing law, Congress
must agree to oil and gas exploration, and if it does not act, the
land will remain a wildlife refuge protected from commercial
development. Hair said Interior's report failed to stress the
probability that finding recoverable oil is only 19 pct. He said
Interior's study also failed to weigh oil, gas, fish and wildlife
information the State of Alaska had gathered nor had the department
consulted the Environmental Protection Agency on the possible effects
of exploration. The federation, in letters to Congressmen, proposed
that a nine-member commission be set up to study all aspects of the
issue and report back to Congress in about two years. Hair said the
federation was not opposed to the possible exploration of oil, only
that Interior's study was inadquate to make a sound judgement.
Congressional observers said that at present there was little
sentiment in Congress to open the wildlife area for commercial
exploitation dispite increasing concern that the United States is
becoming overly dependent on foreign oil. reuter 

MEES SAYS SECOND WEEK MARCH OPEC OUTPUT 14 MLN BPD
    NICOSIA, March 16 - 
OPEC produced only about 14 mln bpd of oil in the second week of March
-- 1.8 mln bpd below its ceiling -- largely because of pipeline
problems in Turkey and Ecuador, the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES)
estimated. A landslide breached Iraq's one mln bpd pipeline through
Turkey on March 6 for a week, and earthquakes in Ecuador have shut
down its export pipeline for four to five months. Ecuador has an OPEC
quota of 210,000 bpd. MEES put Saudi Arabian output at 2.9 mln bpd in
the first week of March and 3.1 mln bpd in the second, in addition to
output from the Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. MEES
said Saudi Arabia was pumping more than 300,000 bpd of its total
production into floating storage. Saudi Oil Minister Hisham Nazer told
Reuters and the television news agency Visnews yesterday that Saudi
output, including Neutral Zone production, was around three mln bpd.
The Cyprus-based newsletter also said authoritative Libyan oil sources
said Libya was producing 850,000 bpd, compared with its 948,000 bpd
quota, and that actual liftings are much lower than that. It said one
major Libyan equity producer had partially stopped lifting its 55,000
bpd equity entitlement for March because Libya was insisting on
official prices, but is still lifting 40,000 bpd of debt crude at
official prices and a further 25,000 bpd of "purchase crude." It said
small equity producers, with entitlements of only 2,000 to 3,000 bpd,
had also told Tripoli they could not lift at official prices. MEES
said Iraq had sent a telex to OPEC and member countries calling for
the formation of a committee to study what it said were inequalities
in marketing potential among various members. The newsletter said the
Iraqi letter indicated Baghdad was having difficulty selling crude at
official prices. The Iraqi telex pointed out that some member
countries export substantial volumes of oil that are not subject to
OPEC price regulations -- exports of refined products, equity crude on
which the margins are equivalent to covert discounts and "other forms
of hydrocarbons" which are marketed in package deals with crude oil.
REUTER 

SENATOR SAYS ENERGY REPORT ASSUMPTIONS FLAWED
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
Sen. Pete Domenici, a main sponsor of legislation to set an oil import
fee, said the administration's energy security report was based on
flawed economic assumptions. The New Mexico Republican said the report
did not take into account the last few weeks' drop in domestic oil
production in its statement that an oil fee would raise prices for
consumers. The report said a decline in economic growth as a result of
the fee would reduce tax revenues. "A five dlr (per barrel) oil import
fee will provide the stimulus to create jobs and investment, " and
raise revenues, he said. Reuter 

PEMEX LOWERS FEBRUARY FAR EAST CRUDE OIL PRICES
    MEXICO CITY, March 5 - 
The Mexican state oil company Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) said its Far
East customers would be charged 17.25 dlrs per barrel for Isthmus
crude in February and 14.45 dlrs for the heavier Maya. Pemex said this
was 32 cts less than January Isthmus and 15 cts less than January
Maya. Far East customers, primarily Japan which buys an average
180,000 barrels per day of which 150,000 is Isthmus, pay retroactively
while European and U.S. clients are charged per delivery. Reuter 

SUN <SUN> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS
    New York, March 12 - 
Sun Co said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 50
cts a barrel, effective today. The increase brings Sun's posted price
for the West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50
dlrs/bbl. The Light Louisiana Sweet grade was also raised 50 cts to
17.85 dlrs/bbl. Sun Co last changed its crude postings on March 4.
Reuter 

BRAZIL OIL OUTPUT FELL IN FEBRUARY, USAGE UP
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 26 - 
Brazilian crude oil and liquefied natural gas production fell to an
average 583,747 barrels per day in February from 596,740 in the same
1986 month, the state oil company Petrobras said. The drop was due to
operating problems in the Campos Basin, the country's main producing
area, where output was down to 346,011 bpd from 357,420, a Petrobras
statement said. Consumption of oil derivatives totalled 1.14 mln bpd
in February, 16.7 pct up on February last year but down from the
record 1.22 mln bpd used in October last year. Use of alcohol fuel in
February was 208,600 bpd, 42 pct above February, 1986. Reuter 

SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE PRICES
    NEW YORK, March 4 - 
Southland Corp's Citgo Petrleum Corp said it raised the contract price
it will pay for all grades of crude oil by one dlr a barrel, effective
today. The increase brings Citgo's posted price for West Texas
Intermediate to 17.00 dlrs a bbl. West Texas Sour is also now priced
at 17.00 dlrs/bbl, and Light Louisiana South is posted at 17.35
dlrs/bbl. On February 25 Citgo lowered its crude postings 50 cts to
1.50 dlrs per bbl, and cut WTI one dlr to 16.00. Reuter 

IEA FORECASTS SLOWER GROWTH IN OECD OIL DEMAND
    PARIS, April 5 - 
Growth in oil consumption in the Western industrialized countries is
likely to slow to around one pct this year compared with 2.3 pct in
1986, the International Energy Agency said. Oil use in the 24 member
countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD) increased by around one pct in the first quarter of 1987 to
35.9 mln barrels a day, the IEA said in its latest monthly report.
Growth in OECD countries is expected to come primarily from transport
fuels, as was the case in 1986. But if average consumer prices are
higher than 1986, the rate of growth for these fuels may be below last
year's 3.6 pct. The IEA said assuming crude and product prices remain
nar current levels, some destocking by end-users can be expected. If
that takes place, natural gas will also regain some of the market
share it lost to heavy fuel in 1986, it said. IEA estimates on April
one put oil stocks held in the OECD area at 428 mln tonnes, or 98 days
of forward consumption. This is about the same as at the begining of
the year. The agency said this flat trend is explained by the
projected seasonal consumption decline in the second quarter of the
year which offset a reduction in stocks. Company stocks on land in the
OECD rose to 326 mln tonnes on April one this year compared with 316
mln tonnes in calender 1986 while governments also built up their
strategic stocks to 102 mln tonnes against 97 mln in 1986. The year-
on-year trend of government stock building is continuing with company
stocks rising, more or less in line with consumption, after declining
for five years, IEA said. Oil stocks on land in the United States and
Canada were put at 206.6 mln tonnes down from the 214 mln tonnes on
January one and equivalent to 94 and 98 days of consumption,
respectively. Oil stocks in Western Europe were 147.4 mln tonnes, down
from the 154 mln tonnes on January one but still equivalent to 94 days
of consumption. The IEA said that initial estimates indicate that
company stocks fell by 1.2 mln bpd in OECD countries in the first
quarter of the year. This followed a small rise in January of 400,000
bpd but a decline of 1.5 bpd in February and 2.5 bpd in March. And it
is possible that final data will show a larger draw, particulary for
March, it said. As crude production also fell, there is likely to have
also been a decline in non-reported stocks, particularly at sea, the
IEA said. World oil supply fell through the first quarter by about two
bpd to 45.2 bpd from 47.5 bpd in the last quarter of 1986. This drop
was mostly due to a decline in OPEC crude production to around 15.5
bpd in February/March from 16.5 bpd in January and to the seasonal
drop in exports from Centrally Planned Economies, the IEA said. Total
OPEC oil supply totalled 17.2 bpd in the first quarter of 1987 compare
with 19.3 bpd in the last three months of 1986 while supply from non-
OPEC countries totalled 28 bpd as against 28.2 bpd in the same 1986
period. A drop in Saudi Arabian output to a tentatively forecast 3.3
bpd in march from 3.6 bpd in February was the largest factor behind
the OPEC production decline, the IEA said. Reuter 

SOLV-EX <SOLV> SHELL CANADA <SHC> PACT COMPLETE
    ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., March 12 - 
Solv-Ex Corp said it successfully completed its oil sands pilot
testing program under its agreement with Shell Canada Limited <SHC>
and received a 250,000 U.S. dlr bonus payment. It also said that Shell
Canada exercised its option to take over Solv-Ex's 25 pct working
interest in the construction of the oil facility, relieving it of its
obligation to raise about 62.5 mln Canadian dlrs for plant
construction. It said 30 pct of that loan was guaranteed by the
Government of Alberta. In exchange for Shell's participation, Solv-Ex
said Shell is obligated to pay it an up-front royalty and a running
royalty based on the operating profits of the oil sands facility. It
said the Shell Canada 7,500 barrel per day oil sands project will be
built on Shell's oil sand lease about 40 miles north of Fort McMurray
in the Athabasca region of northern Alberta. Solv-Ex said the project
will cost about 260 mln Canadian dlrs. It said that following a final
feasibility study the plant should open in the early 1990s when oil
prices are expected to exceed 20 U.S. dlrs per barrel. Reuter 

STUDY GROUP URGES INCREASED U.S. OIL RESERVES
    WASHINGTON, March 2 - 
A study group said the United States should increase its strategic
petroleum reserve to one mln barrels as one way to deal with the
present and future impact of low oil prices on the domestic oil
industry. U.S. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750 mln
barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect the economy from an
overseas embargo or a sharp price rise. The Aspen Institute for
Humanistic Studies, a private group, also called for new research for
oil exploration and development techniques. It predicted prices would
remain at about 15-18 dlrs a barrel for several years and then rise to
the mid 20s, with imports at about 30 pct of U.S. consumption. The
study cited two basic policy paths for the nation: to protect the U.S.
industry through an import fee or other such device or to accept the
full economic benefits of cheap oil. But the group did not strongly
back either option, saying there were benefits and drawbacks to both.
It said instead that such moves as increasing oil reserves and more
exploration and development research would help to guard against or
mitigate the risks of increased imports. Reuter 

IRAN SELLING DISCOUNTED CRUDE, JAPAN TRADERS SAY
    TOKYO, March 9 - 
Japanese customers have bought nearly six mln barrels of crude oil
from the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) at a substantial discount
to the official price, and Western traders have received even larger
discounts, Japanese traders involved in the transactions told Reuters.
NIOC has sold its crude for March shipment to Japanese customers with
different formulas. One company has bought 800,000 barrels of Iranian
Heavy at a straight discount of 30-35 cents below the official price,
the sources said. Other deals have been fixed with prices linked to
Oman and Dubai spot prices less a discount, they said. Iran's
discounted sales have not, however, managed to reverse the bullish
tone in the crude oil and products spot markets, oil traders said.
Market sentiment is being influenced more by the colder weather in
Europe, and reports that OPEC's February output was below its self-
imposed quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day. Firmer gas oil on the
London futures, and more bullish sentiment on the New York Mercantile
Exchange futures market are supporting spot price levels, they said.
Another Japanese trading house has paid the official price but through
a processing arrangement will effectively receive a discount, the
sources said. "It's just disguised cheating," one Japanese trader
said. The sources said only one Japanese company had paid the official
price for Iranian oil. It has purchased 1.5 mln barrels of Iranian
Heavy for April shipment for refining in Singapore. They said about
nine VLCCs of Iranian crude have been sold to Western traders with
pricing based 60 pct on the official price and 40 pct on spot prices,
or with part of the price related to processing arrangements. 

ENERGY ANALYST PROPOSES U.S. OIL TARIFF
    WASHINGTON, March 23 - 
Energy analyst Edward Krapels said the United States should consider
an oil tariff to keep U.S. dependence on imports below 50 pct. "On the
supply side, the argument in favor of a contingent, variable import
tariff is most persuasive," Krapels, president of Energy Security
Analysis, Inc said in a statement at a House Energy and Power
subcommittee hearing. "An optimal tariff would be one implemented only
if the international price of crude oil falls below, say, 15 dlrs a
barrel. On the demand side, the obvious policy is an excise tax on
transportation fuels," Krapels said. But William Johnson of the Jofree
Corp disagreed with the oil tariff proposal, saying Congress should
remove price controls on natural gas, repeal the windfall profits tax
on oil companies, allow exports of Alaskan oil and provide tax
incentives for U.S. oil production, or, at the least, preserve
exisiting tax incentives for drilling. He also urging filling the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve at a faster rate. Richard Adkerson of
Arthur Andersen and Co told the subcommittee oil imports were expected
to increase because funds for exploration and development of domestic
oil sources cannot now be economically justified due to low oil
prices. Reuter 

PARIBAS SEEKING TO ADJUST ECUADOR OIL FACILITY
    NEW YORK, March 16 - 
Banque Paribas, which arranged a 220 mln dlr loan for Ecuador last
year to pre-finance oil exports, wants to adjust the terms of the
facility to help the country recover from a devastating earthquake,
bankers said. But the French bank's plan, which would effectively
postpone repayment of about 30 mln dlrs of the loan for several
months, is running into stiff resistance from many of the 52 members
of the loan syndicate. The pipeline that carries all Ecuador's oil
exports was ruptured in the March 5 tremor and will take some five
months to repair at a cost of about 150 mln dlrs to repair. President
Leon Febres Cordero on Friday estimated total damages caused by the
quake at one billion dlrs and said that Ecuador as a result would
maintain January's suspension of interest payments on its foreign
commercial bank debt. Payments were halted in January because of the
drop in the price of oil, which accounts for nearly two-thirds of
Ecuador's export earnings and 60 pct of government revenue. Although
sympathetic to Ecuador's plight, many banks in the Paribas facility
feel that emergency financial relief is a job for international
financial organizations and not for commercial banks, bankers said.
The 18-month oil-financing facility, which was signed last October 28,
is one of the few purely voluntary credits for a Latin American nation
since the region's debt crisis erupted in August 1982. Because it was
a voluntary deal, many bankers feel strongly that the orginal terms
must be adhered to. Otherwise, they fear, the gradual re-establishment
of normal market conditions for Latin borrowers will be set back.
"There's a lot of reluctance by the other banks. They feel it's a
different facility, and so any kind of suggestion of a restructuring
would look bad," one banker commented. Reuter 

CRUDE OIL NETBACKS UP IN U.S., MEDITERRANEAN
    NEW YORK, March 30 - 
Crude oil netback values in complex refineries rose slightly in the
U.S. and the Mediterranean last Friday from the previous week but were
lower elsewhere, according to calculations by Reuters Pipeline. The
soft tone to refining margins reflects large worldwide stocks of
petroleum products and thin trading activity, traders said. In the
U.S. Gulf, sweet crudes rose in value by as much as 26 cts a barrel
for West Texas Intermediate, an increase of 1.4 pct from the previous
Friday, while sour crudes, such as Alaska North Slope, were up one
pct. In the Mediterranean, netback values were up 17 cts to 22 cts a
barrel, with Arab Light up 17 cts a barrel to 18.62 dlrs, a 0.9 pct
increase from the previous Friday and Urals were up 22 cts a barrel to
19.16 dlrs, a 1.2 pct increase. But netbacks for crude oil refined in
Northern Europe was generally lower with Brent valued at 18.89 dlrs,
off 30 cts from the previous friday, and Bonny Light was off 17 cts to
19.58 dlrs a barrel. Refinery netbacks in Singapore were also lower,
with heavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy dropped 10 cts to
16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to 18.09 dlrs. On the
U.S. West Coast, however, netback values for ANS CIF L.A. were weaker
with weak gasoline prices sending the yield at cracking plants down 68
cts to 18.42 dlrs from the previous Friday, as shown below in dlrs a
barrel. TOPPING.........15.63......16.10......14.30
CRACKING........18.42......19.10......16.86 The Mediterranean region
also showed netback values rising last Friday over the previous week
with the largest gains shown by Es Sider and the heavier Urals crude
oil, which were each up 22 cts a barrel last Friday to 19.40 dlrs and
19.16 dlrs a barrel, respectively. Netback values for the
mediterranean region are shown below in dlrs a barrel.
GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 ES
SIDER........19.40......19.18......16.44 ARAB
LIGHT......18.61......18.44......15.52 IRAN
LT.........19.25......19.08......16.16
KUWAIT..........18.51......18.33......15.42 URALS
cif.......19.16......18.94......16.07 Netbacks in Northern Europe's
refinery region were lower last friday from the previous week with
Brent falling 1.6 pct to 18.89 dlrs a barrel. Netbacks for other
grades of oil refined in Northern Europe are shown below in dlrs a
barrel. ................MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27
BRENT...........18.89......19.19......16.77 BONNY
LIGHT.....19.58......19.75......17.15 ARAB
LIGHT......18.49......18.52......16.07 URALS
CIF.......19.02......18.98......16.54 Refinery netbacks in Singapore
were also lower with heavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy
dropped 10 cts to 16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to
18.09 dlrs. Netbacks for other grades of oil refined in Singapore are
shown below in dlrs a barrel. GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR
20.....FEB 27 ATTAKA..........19.23......19.24......16.72 ARAB
LIGHT......18.00......18.10......15.55
OMAN............18.21......18.25......16.31
DUBAI...........18.09......18.21......15.86 ARAB
HEAVY......16.63......16.73......14.24 Reuter 

TEXACO CANADA <TXC> LOWERS CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, Feb 26 - 
Texaco Canada said it lowered the contract price it will pay for crude
oil 64 Canadian cts a barrel, effective today. The decrease brings the
company's posted price for the benchmark grade, Edmonton/Swann Hills
Light Sweet, to 22.26 Canadian dlrs a bbl. Texaco Canada last changed
its crude oil postings on Feb 19. Reuter 

BIDS AWARDED FOR ELK HILLS CRUDE OIL
    LOS ANGELES, March 20 - 
The U.S. Department of Energy said it has awarded bids for about
90,000 barrels per day, bpd, of crude oil from the Elk Hills Naval
Petroleum Reserve in California. The contract period runs from April
one through July one, the DOE said. Successful bidders, the amount of
crude oil and the price per bbl according to the DOE are as follows -
Texaco Inc's <TX> Texaco Trading and Transport 15,000 bpd at 15.79
dlrs and 2,200 bpd at 15.19 dlrs, Beacon Oil Co 7,000 bpd at 15.66
dlrs and 2,500 bpd at 16.04 dlrs, Golden West Refining 8,110 bpd at
15.42 dlrs. Successful bidders, the amount of oil and price per bbl,
according to the DOE continue as follows - Chevron's <CHV> Chevron USA
Inc 3,000 bpd at 14.51 dlrs and 4,000 bpd at 14.61 dlrs, Chevron
International Oil Co 2,600 bpd at 14.41 dlrs and 2,800 bpd at 14.51
dlrs, Newhall Refining Co 6,000 bpd at 15.82 dlrs, Caljet Inc 4,000
bpd at 15.32 dlrs, Casey Co 4,000 bpd at 15.45 dlrs. Also, Cryssen
Refining Inc 4,000 bpd at 15.47 dlrs, Edgington Oil Co 4,000 bpd at
15.54 dlrs, Sound Refining Inc 3,100 bpd at 15.51 dlrs, Atlantic
Richfield Co <ARC> 3,000 bpd at 15.75 dlrs. Successful bidders, the
amount of crude oil and the price per bbl according to the DOE
continue as follows - Orkin Inc 2,679 bpd at 15.24 dlrs, Lunday-
Thagard Co 2,511 bpd at 15.27 dlrs, Golden Eagle Refining 2,500 bpd at
15.37 dlrs, MacMillan Ring-Free Oil Co 1,000 bpd at 15.81 dlrs, 1,000
bpd at 15.71 dlrs and 230 bpd at 16.02 dlrs, Mock Resources 2,000 bpd
at 15.76 dlrs, Petro-Diamond 2,000 bpd at 15.46 dlrs. Reuter 

QATAR UNVEILS BUDGET FOR FISCAL 1987/88
    DOHA, March 1 - 
The Gulf oil state of Qatar, recovering slightly from last year's
decline in world oil prices, announced its first budget since early
1985 and projected a deficit of 5.472 billion riyals. The deficit
compared with a shortfall of 7.3 billion riyals in the last published
budget for 1985/86. In a statement outlining the budget for the fiscal
year 1987/88 beginning today, Finance and Petroleum Minister Sheikh
Abdul-Aziz bin Khalifa al-Thani said the government expected to spend
12.217 billion riyals in the period. Projected expenditure in the
1985/86 budget had been 15.6 billion riyals. Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said
government revenue would be about 6.745 billion riyals, down by about
30 pct on the 1985/86 projected revenue of 9.7 billion. The government
failed to publish a 1986/87 budget due to uncertainty surrounding oil
revenues. Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said that during that year the government
decided to limit recurrent expenditure each month to one-twelfth of
the previous fiscal year's allocations minus 15 pct. He urged heads of
government departments and public institutions to help the government
rationalise expenditure. He did not say how the 1987/88 budget
shortfall would be covered. Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said plans to limit
expenditure in 1986/87 had been taken in order to relieve the burden
placed on the country's foreign reserves. He added in 1987/88 some
2.766 billion riyals had been allocated for major projects including
housing and public buildings, social services, health, education,
transport and communications, electricity and water, industry and
agriculture. No figure was revealed for expenditure on defence and
security. There was also no projection for oil revenue. Qatar, an OPEC
member, has an output ceiling of 285,000 barrels per day. Sheikh
Abdul-Aziz said: "Our expectations of positive signs regarding (oil)
price trends, foremost among them OPEC's determination to shoulder its
responsibilites and protect its wealth, have helped us make reasonable
estimates for the coming year's revenue on the basis of our assigned
quota." REUTER 

INDONESIA OIL CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS END THIS MONTH
    JAKARTA, March 11 - 
Negotiations between Indonesia's state oil company Pertamina and
foreign oil contractors on extension of the standard 30-year
production sharing contract will be concluded by the end of this
month, a Pertamina official said. Jumardi Jukardi, head of Pertamina's
foreign contractors coordinating board, gave no details about the
outcome of the talks. But Pertamina President Abdul Rachman Ramly has
said priority will be given to extending contracts for companies whose
exploration and production contracts expire within the next seven to
10 years. Jukardi, speaking to Indonesian reporters, said the
negotiations would determine whether the 85-15 production sharing
split in favour of Pertamina would be adhered to or altered in some
cases as oil companies are asking for. Hardjoko Seputro, spokesman for
the Mines and Energy Ministry, has said that President Suharto has
agreed in principle to extension of the standard 30-year production
sharing contract to reflect better current depressed conditions on the
international oil market. REUTER 

AUSTRALIAN OIL INDUSTRY TO CONTINUE TAX CAMPAIGN
    SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 24 - 
The council of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association (APEA)
said it will press on with its campaign for major improvements to
Australia's petroleum taxation structure. The council said in a
statement the industry was bitterly disappointed by the Australian
government's position on taxation, as presented in a speech by
Resources and Energy Minister Gareth Evans to the APEA conference. As
earlier reported, Evans said he was inclined to target any tax changes
rather than take a broad-based approach to secondary taxation of
petroleum. APEA had expected the government to make positive responses
to detailed industry submissions seeking the removal of existing
secondary tax disincentives to exploration and development, the
council said. It said it plans to reply in detail to issues raised by
Evans, but its immediate concern was the decision to proceed with the
current resource rental tax (RRT) legislation. Evans told the
conference the government did not plan to accept industry pleas for
changes in the legislation to allow deductibility of unsuccessful
exploration expenditure. "The government's unwillingness to allow the
deduction of unsuccessful exploration expenditure within the whole
offshore area in which RRT applies negates any claim that the tax is
profit based," the APEA council said. The government missed a major
opportunity to persuade oil exploration companies that it had
realistic answers to the industry's concerns, despite its recognition
of the industry's problems, the council said. The industry has called
for the end of all discriminatory secondary taxation of petroleum,
citing them as major disincentives at a time of low oil prices. REUTER


SAUDI OIL MINISTER FORESEES NO NEED FOR NEW OPEC MEASURES BEFORE JUNE 25




TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS REAGAN UNLIKELY TO ALTER OPPOSITION TO OIL IMPORT FEE




EXXON (XON) SEES SYNFUELS ROLE BY YEAR 2000
    HOUSTON, March 30 - 
Development of costly shale oil, liquified coal and other kinds of
synthetic fuels, halted in recent years because of cheap and abundant
petroleum supplies, will become economic again when world oil prices
top 30 dlrs a barrel, an Exxon Co USA executive said. Joe McMillan, a
senior vice president, told Reuters after addressing a Houston meeting
of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, "By early in the next
century, synthetics should play a significant role in this country's
energy supply." McMillan also told reporters at a news conference that
he believed synthetic fuels would become economic to develop when
world oil prices reached a 30 to 40 dlr a barrel price range. "You're
talking about a 50 pct increase in crude oil prices, but I think that
time is coming and we've got to be prepared," McMillan said. He
predicted U.S. oil demand would rise by about one pct annually in the
next few years while the nation fails to replace its oil reserves
through exploration. By the turn of the century, world oil prices will
be significantly higher because of declining supplies, McMillan said.
Ashland Oil, Inc. chairman John Hall, who also spoke at the meeting,
advocated some form of federal tax incentives to help spur development
of synthetic fuels. The United States, Hall said, has nearly 500
billion tons of demonstrated coal reserves, an amount more than triple
that of all the world's known oil reserves. "We must encourage
research now in order to make synfuels competitive later," Hall said.
The average lead time for development of a shale oil or liquified coal
project is between five and ten years. Until last year, the federal
government had subsidized synfuels development through the U.S.
Synthetic Fuels Corp., a research program created during the Carter
Administration with the goal of developing replacements for up to two
mln barrels of oil. The corporation was shut down last April when
Congress refused to continue funding its eight billion dlr budget
because of uneconomic projects based on forecasts of 50 dlrs a barrel
oil and 10 dlr per mcf natural gas during this decade. Reuter 

OPEC SAYS FEBRUARY OUTPUT UNDER CEILING
    VIENNA, March 5 - 
OPEC output in February was "well below" the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling it
set in December and all countries are strictly adhering to their
quotas, the OPEC news agency Opecna quoted an OPEC secretariat
official as saying. The official was quoted as saying that lower
output was the result "of member countries' firm determination to
defend the organisation's official price of 18 dlrs per barrel, and to
refrain from selling any quantity below that price." The unnamed
official was further quoted as saying that no OPEC meeting was
foreseen before the next biannual OPEC session planned to start on
June 25. The official gave no figure for February output. The
statement said only that "the reduction in total supplies, namely
actual exports of crude oil and products, plus local deliveries in
member countries, is even more pronounced as those supplies fell very
noticeably during that month." "No matter what the pressure on member
countries by lifters to align the official selling price to the
ongoing market price, member countries are, without exception,
strictly adhering to the official selling price in spite of the
financial hardship this may entail," the statement said. "The very
recent improvement in the price structure is an indicator of such
determination by the organization to stick to the official selling
price," the statement said. Free spot market prices rose from around
14.50 dlrs a barrel in early December last year to near OPEC's
official levels towards the end of the year, after the OPEC pact.
There has been oil industry speculation that OPEC might have to hold
an extraordinrary meeting prior to its scheduled June session to
discuss reports of overproduction by some states and strains on the
differential matrix, which prices each OPEC crude according to its
quality and distance from main markets. The official said in the
statement that no such emergency session was scheduled "because of
member countries' firm determination to defend the price (system)"
agreed in December. Opec"s differential committee was to have met in
Vienna starting April 2 but this session has been postponed, with no
new date set, according to an official of the United Arab Emirates,
which chairs the seven-state body. Other members are Algeria, Kuwait,
Saudi Arabia, Libya, Nigeria and Qatar. REUTER 

IRAQ REPLACES OIL MINISTER IN BIG GOVT SHUFFLE
    BAGHDAD, March 23 - 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein carried out his first major government
shakeup in five years tonight, naming a new oil minister in shuffling
three posts. One minister was dropped in the shuffle, announced in a
presidential decree. It gave no reason for the changes in the
government of the Arab Baath Socialist Party which has ruled Iraq
since a revolution in 1968. The decree named the head of the Iraqi
National Oil Company (INOC), Isam Abdul-Rahim al-Chalaby, to take over
as oil minister replacing Qassem Ahmed Taqi. Taqi, appointed oil
minister in the last significant government reorganization in 1982,
was moved to be minister of heavy industries. Reuter 

PAPUA NEW GUINEA PLANS RESOURCES INVESTMENT AGENCY
    PORT MORESBY, March 5 - 
The Papua New Guinea Government will establish a public corporation to
invest in resources projects, Minerals and Energy Minister John
Kaputin said. "We intend to provide a means through which less
privileged individuals can become part owners and beneficiaries from
the development of mining and petroleum projects," he told Parliament.
Existing policy allowing the state up to 30 pct equity in major mining
projects and 22.5 pct in oil and gas projects would be maintained, he
said. The planned agency could take over the state's equity in current
developments. Kaputin said Papua New Guinea was experiencing a boom
with exploration companies spending about 60 mln kina annually on
about 150 mining and 23 petroleum projects. "The Government is
determined to ensure that Papua New Guinean ownership in minerals and
petroleum projects increases in an orderly way," he said. Kaputin did
not say when the corporation would be established or exactly what form
it would take, but said the government would study whether it should
be directly involved in exploration or development. REUTER 

HOUSE SPEAKER BACKS OIL IMPORT FORECAST PLAN
    WASHINGTON, March 12 - 
House Speaker Jim Wright endorsed a proposal to require the president
to take action to reduce oil imports if they threaten to top 50 pct of
U.S. consumption. Wright told reporters the plan by Sen. Lloyd
Bentsen, a fellow Texas Democrat, was positive and useful. Oil imports
peaked in 1977 at 47 pct, were short of 36 pct last year and this year
are up over 40 pct, Bentsen said. The Bentsen proposal, supported by
24 other Senators, would would require the president to issue annual
three-year oil import forecasts. In any year they threatened to top 50
pct, he would be ordered to propose quotas or other solution. Reuter 

SAUDIS DROP CONDITION FOR OIL SALE TO BRAZIL
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 16 - 
Saudi Arabia has dropped its condition that Brazil secure
international bank guarantees before Saudia Arabia would ship it oil,
state-oil company Petrobras said in a statement. Petrobras said the
Saudis will accept Banco do Brasil credit guarantees. Petrobras
cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude oil purchase from the Saudis yesterday
after they refused to accept a letter of credit from the official Bank
of Brazil. The Saudis had demanded that Brazil get credit guarantees
from leading international banks. Petrobras said the Saudis had been
advised that if they did not change their mind by Monday, Petrobras
would negotiate the purchase of oil with other producers. The
Petrobras statement said the shipment of 2.2 mln barrels will be made
by the Saudis on March 24 as scheduled. The shipment was part of a
contract signed in February for the Saudis to supply Brazil with
125,000 barrels per day until June. REUTER 

AUSTRALIA SAID TO RELY TOO MUCH ON OIL TAXES
    SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 23 - 
The government's over-reliance on revenue from crude oil is adversely
affecting Australia's economic performance, Australian Petroleum
Exploration Association (APEA) chairman Dennis Benbow said. Over one-
third of Australia's indirect tax income is derived from oil at a time
of falling domestic output and weak crude prices, he told the APEA
annual conference here. This dependence on oil-generated revenue
distorts the country's economic performance directly by acting as a
disincentive to new exploration and indirectly by affecting trading
competitiveness through high energy costs, he said. Australia's
medium-term liquid fuel self-sufficiency position is posing a major
economic threat, yet the government's response has been to load new
tax burdens on the oil industry, Benbow said. Domestic oil output from
existing fields is expected to fall to 280,000 barrels per day (bpd)
in fiscal 1992/93 from 546,000 bpd in 1985/86, reflecting mainly the
decline of the Bass Strait fields, he said. Bass Strait reserves are
now two-thirds depleted, with the three largest fields 80 pct
depleted, he said. By 1992/93, Bass Strait output is expected to be
just over half the 1985/86 level, assuming a number of so far
undeveloped fields are brought on stream and enhanced recovery from
existing fields goes ahead, Benbow said. Government projections of
output from as yet undiscovered fields range from 40,000 to 130,000
bpd, he said. Australian liquid fuel demand is forecast to rise to
680,000 bpd in 1992/93 from 565,000 in 1985/86, implying a crude oil
gap of between 270,000 and 360,000 bpd in five years time, he said. At
present world oil prices and the current value of the Australian
dollar, annual oil imports in 1992/93 would cost between 3.2 billion
and 3.6 billion dlrs, Benbow said. Despite intensive exploration in
the early 1980's, the addition to reserves has been inadequate, he
said. For example, the 409 mln barrels discovered in the five years
1980-84 represent about two years' consumption, he said. He called on
the government to review its tax policies to restore incentive to
exploration. REUTER 

ECUADOR OFFICIAL SEEKS OIL AID IN VENEZUELA
    CARACAS, March 11 - 
Ecuador's deputy energy minister Fernando Santos Alvite arrived here
last night for talks on further Venezuelan assistance to his country's
oil industry following last week's earthquake, officials said. Ecuador
was obliged to suspend crude oil exports for an expected five months
as a result of damage to 25 miles of pipeline linking its jungle oil
fields with the Pacific port of Balao. Oil normally accounts for 60
pct of its exports. Fellow OPEC member Venezuela has already agreed to
lend Ecuador five mln barrels of crude, to be repaid in kind after 180
days, to help meet its domestic consumption needs. Reuter 

IRANIAN OIL MINISTER ARRIVES IN ALGERIA
    ALGIERS, March 6 - 
Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh arrived in Algiers at the
head of a large delegation for talks on stabilizing oil prices, the
official news agency APS said. In a brief arrival statement, he said
Iran and Algeria were engaged in "continuous and stronger cooperation"
on the world petroleum market and had "deployed considerable efforts
to stablise petroleum prices." He was greeted on arrival by Belkacem
Nabi, the Algerian Minister of Energy, Chemical and Petro-Chemical
Industries. Reuter 

SAUDI ARABIA REITERATES COMMITMENT TO OPEC ACCORD
    BAHRAIN, March 2 - 
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer reiterated the kingdom's
commitment to last December's OPEC accord to boost world oil prices
and stabilize the market, the official Saudi Press Agency SPA said.
Asked by the agency about the recent fall in free market oil prices,
Nazer said Saudi Arabia "is fully adhering by the ... accord and it
will never sell its oil at prices below the pronounced prices under
any circumstance." Saudi Arabia was a main architect of December pact
under which OPEC agreed to cut its total oil output ceiling by 7.25
pct and return to fixed prices of around 18 dollars a barrel. Reuter 

SHELL CANADA SAID IT RAISED CRUDE PRICES BY 47 CANADIAN CTS A BARREL TODAY




CRUDE OIL PRICES UP AS STOCKS, OUTPUT FALL
    NEW YORK, March 6 - 
U.S. crude oil prices rose above 18 dlrs a barrel this week and
industry analysts said the price could rise another dollar as
inventories fall. "OPEC is keeping its production down, and in the
cash market there is tight supply of crude with short transportation
time to major refining centers," said Daniel McKinley, oil analyst
with Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. "That could send prices 50 cts
to a dollar higher," he added. The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas
Intermediate rose to 18.15 dlrs a barrel today, a rise of 1.50 dlrs
this week. The rally in oil prices this week came after prices fell in
February more than two dlrs from its high of 18.25 dlrs a barrel. "Oil
traders were pulling prices down on the assumption that oil stocks
were building and OPEC was producing well above its 15.8 mln bpd
quota, but now both of those assumptions have come under question,"
McKinley said. Yesterday the International Energy Agency in its
monthly report said that oil stocks in the OECD area, or in
industrialized nations, were drawn down by 1.3 mln bpd during the
first quarter of this year. IEA estimates that the draw in oil stocks
during the first quarter of this year will come largely from oil
companies whose inventory levels by April one will be an estimated 326
mln tonnes, or about 74 days consumption. Industry analysts also said
the estimate of a 3.5 mln bpd draw in stocks made by Shell Chairman
Peter Holmes yesterday fed speculation that other major companies were
destocking. Traders said the destocking has come about as a result of
a so-called buyers strike, which kept refiners from buying officially
priced OPEC oil in an effort to get the organization to offer
discounts to the official price. "This struggle between the companies
and OPEC is the ultimate game of chicken but it will be resolved
relatively soon. I would imagine by about the middle of the month
(March)," the general trading manager of an international oil company
told Reuters in a telephone interview. For its part OPEC has moved to
win this game by cutting excess supplies from the market by a
reduction of its own output, traders said. A Reuter survey estimates
OPEC output to be 14.7 mln bpd this week. Also, an earthquake in
Ecuador yesterday led it to suspend oil exports indefintiely and force
majeure its shipments. "This will reduce short-haul availabilities by
about 250,000 bpd almost immediately and the longer the suspension
continues, the larger the draw in stocks will be for companies
expecting it to be there," McKinley said. International oil traders
said that other short-haul crudes, such as North Sea Brent, were also
scarce because Asian refiners bought the oil after absorbing a lot of
the readily available Mideast crudes earlier this week. If this
pattern continues then oil companies will bid up the price of oil as
they purchase for their refineries, trading managers at several
companies told Reuters. But there were skeptics who said they wondered
how long OPEC can retain its unity if buyer resistance continues.
Stephen Hanke, chief economist at Friedburg Commodity Management, said
OPEC production was lower "because of the Saudi cut (to 3.1 mln bpd)
and this could spell trouble if it gives other members an incentive to
exceed their quotas." He added, "The Saudis will be picking up the tab
for other members who produce over their quota, and the drain on the
Saudis will continue, forcing them to cut output maybe as low as 2.5
mln bpd to support the 18 dlrs average price," he added. There are
also signs of some OPEC crudes being sold in the spot market at below
OPEC official prices, traders said. Oil traders said Nigerian Brass
River sold for delivery into the U.S. Gulf at a price related to North
Sea brent, which traded this week at 17.60 dlrs, far below the
official price of 18.92 dlrs for the similar quality Bonny Light.
Iranian oil is also surfacing in the U.S. Gulf and the Far East at
reported discounts to its 17.50 dlrs official price. "There is a lot
of oil priced on government-to-government deals, which are below
official prices and this is probably being resold," one international
trader said. Reuter 

MEXICAN FIRST QTR CRUDE EXPORTS SEEN AT 15.25 DLRS
    MEXICO CITY, March 30 - 
The average price of mexico's crude oil exports in first quarter 1987
will be 15.25 dlrs per barrel, according to preliminary figures issued
in a press release by the state oil company Petroleos Mexicanos
(PEMEX). It gave no direct comparison with the year-ago figure but
said crude and products sales were expected to rise to 1.99 billion
dlrs this quarter, 420 mln dlrs higher than expected and 22 pct better
than the year-ago quarter. Prospects for the second quarter were
relatively favourable with crude exports seen at 1.320 mln bpd after
an expected 1.324 mln this month, 1.323 in February and 1.395 mln in
January. REUTER 

NO IMMEDIATE PLANS TO CLOSE REFINERY - ESSO SAF
    PARIS, March 18 - 
ESSO SAF <ESSF.PA>, the French subsidiary of Exxon Corp <XON>, said it
had no immediate plans to shut down one of its two refineries. Exxon's
new president Lee R. Raymond said earlier that it could decide to
close a French refinery. An ESSO SAF spokesman said a closure was a
hypothesis that depended on the evolution of the market and
refineries' ability to make money. He said Port Jerome west of Paris
and Fos sur Mer on the Mediterranean had benefitted from new
investment over 1985-86 and had last year broken even after stock
losses. The Port Jerome refinery has an annual production capacity of
seven mln tonnes while Fos sur Mer's is five mln, the spokesman added.
Industry sources said the easiest plant to dispose of would be Fos sur
Mer because it is a single refinery, while the Port Jerome refinery is
attached to a wider complex comprising a petrochemical plant and a
lubricant production plant. Raymond was quoted as saying in a
published interview that Exxon was reviewing its worldwide refinery
operations and might decide to close one of its French refineries.
Reuter 

OPEC DEFENDING 18 DLR PRICE, SUBROTO SAYS
    JAKARTA, March 13 - 
Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said OPEC is deliberately under its
production ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels to defend its 18 dlr a barrel
price target. He told reporters at an energy conference in Jakarta
that OPEC had decided to maintain its price level of 18 dlrs. "We are
deliberately defending the price, so OPEC production is less than 15.8
(mln) at the moment," he stated. Asked if OPEC would increase
production if prices went above 18 dlrs a barrel, he said this would
be decided at the next OPEC meeting in June. "We will discuss the
market situation then," he added. He said a meeting of the OPEC
Differentials Committee had been postponed because "there is no need
for the meeting." He did not elaborate. The committee had originally
been due to meet in Vienna this week. REUTER 

Opec deliberately under 15.8 mln barrel ceiling to defend price - Subroto




IRAQI OIL MINISTER REPLACED - OFFICIAL
    BAGHDAD, March 23 - 
Iraq's Oil Minister Qassem Ahmed Taqi has been moved to the Heavy
Industries ministry, the official Iraqi news agcny INA said tonight.
It quoted a Presidential decree appointing Oil Ministry undersecretary
Isam Abdul-Rahim Al-Chalaby as the new Oil Minister. The Ministers of
Industry and Communication and Transport had both been relieved of
their posts, the news agency said. No immediate explanation was given
for the changes. Al-Chalaby is the head of the Iraqi National Oil
Company. INA said the decree, signed by President Saddam Hussein,
relieved the Minister of Heavy Industries, Subhi Yassin Khadeir of his
post and appointed him a Presidential adviser. His ministry was
formerly known as the Industry and Mineral Resources Ministry. The
Minister of Communications and Transport, Abdel-Jabbar Abdel-Rahim al-
Asadi was also relieved of his post and replaced by a member of the
ruling Baath party regional command, Mohammed Hamza al-Zubeidi. Al-
Zubedei is also a Presidential adviser. All three ministers involved
in the reshuffle had spent more than four years in their posts. Reuter


MURPHY RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES ONE DLR/BBL. WTI TO 17.00 DLRS TODAY




REAGAN SAYS U.S. NEEDS TO LESSEN OIL IMPORTS
    WASHINGTON, March 20 - 
President Reagan said the United States must do more to lessen its
reliance on imported oil. President Reagan said during a nationally
televised news conference that the rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil
is a problem that the administration is studying. "We have to study
this more," Reagan said. "This is why we increased the Strategic
(Petroleum) Reserve, but we have to do more," he said. Reagan said his
administration has already proposed deregulating natural gas and
eliminating the windfall profits tax on crude oil production. However,
he complained that Congress had not yet approved those measures. The
Department of Energy earlier this week released a report that warned
of rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil imports at a time when domestic
production is declining. It suggested options for the administration
to consider, but made no specific recommendations. Reuter 

OPEC WANTS 18 DLR OIL PRICE - OAPEC OFFICIAL
    BRUSSELS, March 17 - 
OPEC believes world oil prices should be set around a fixed average
price of 18 dlrs a barrel, OAPEC Assistant General Secretary Abdelaziz
Al-Wattari said. In a speech to a European Community/OAPEC/OPEC
seminar in Luxembourg released here, Al-Wattari said, "OPEC believes
...the world energy trade should be kept without restrictions and
should be built around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs." Al-Wattari
noted that total OPEC output was below the organization's agreed
ceiling for all member countries in February, although this had meant
sacrifices. The effect of these sacrifices meant that market
stability, though restored to a good level, was still under pressure,
Al-Wattari said. "A lasting stability in the world market requires a
wider scope of international cooperation," he said. Reuter 

OIL ANALYST SEES PAPUA NEW GUINEA AS GOOD PROSPECT
    SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 25 - 
Papua New Guinea (PNG) provides the most exciting new prospect in the
Asia-Pacific region for oil production, energy analyst Fereidun
Fesharaki said here. The recent successful find at Iagifu is likely to
put PNG on the list of major oil exporters by the early 1990s, he told
the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association annual conference.
Fesharaki, leader of the Energy Program at the East-West Center in
Honolulu, Hawaii, was speaking on the Asia-Pacific petroleum outlook.
With domestic demand of around 12,000 barrels per day (bpd) and
prospects of production of over 100,000 bpd by late 1991, PNG would
become an Ecuador-level crude exporter, Fesharaki said. The Iagifu
wells in the Papuan Basin have recorded the best oil flows in more
than 60 years of exploration in PNG. The PNG government's Geological
Survey in a paper distributed at the conference estimates Iagifu
reserves at about 500 mln barrels. PNG enjoys the most liberal tax
regime in the region with no secondary taxes, Fesharaki said. "We
expect a much larger oil search in Papua New Guinea, and discovery of
much larger volumes of oil, similar in quality to (light) Bass Strait
crude," Fesharaki said. There are also large pockets of high quality
condensates to be produced, notably in the Juha field near Iagifu
which is capable of producing 30,000 to 40,000 bpd, he said. But
prices should be somewhat higher than the present levels to justify
development of the Juha field, he said. The PNG Geological Survey
paper noted there are five large prospective but little-explored
sedimentary basins in PNG. REUTER 

OPEC STICKING FIRM ON OFFICIAL PRICES - SUBROTO
    TOKYO, March 5 - 
OPEC countries are all sticking firmly to official crude oil prices
but the volatility of spot prices is likely to continue into the third
quarter, Indonesian Minister of Mines and Energy Subroto told Reuters.
Subroto, attending a Pacific Energy Cooperation conference, blamed
recent rapid spot price changes on unbalanced supply and demand. "If
we stick to the production limitation, the third quarter will be in
better balance." He said the market is in a period of transition while
the impact of OPEC's December agreement to cut output and fix prices
at an average 18 dlrs a barrel is worked through. Asked whether OPEC
members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) had any concrete
proposals to help Qatar sell its crude oil in the face of strong
resistance to its official prices, Subroto said: "Apparently they have
taken care of that." "They (the GCC) meet very often among themselves.
I think they'll help each other," he said. Subroto said that as he was
not a member of OPEC's Price Differentials Committee he did not know
why the meeting had been postponed from its scheduled April 2 date.
"Maybe they find it is better not to have the meeting because ...
Everyone is sticking to official prices," he said. REUTER 

STUDY GROUP URGES INCREASED U.S. OIL RESERVES
    WASHINGTON, March 2 - 
A study group said the United States should increase its strategic
petroleum reserve to one mln barrels as one way to deal with the
present and future impact of low oil prices on the domestic oil
industry. U.S. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750 mln
barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect the economy from an
overseas embargo or a sharp price rise. The Aspen Institute for
Humanistic Studies, a private group, also called for new research for
oil exploration and development techniques. It predicted prices would
remain at about 15-18 dlrs a barrel for several years and then rise to
the mid 20s, with imports at about 30 pct of U.S. consumption. It said
instead that such moves as increasing oil reserves and more
exploration and development research would help to guard against or
mitigate the risks of increased imports. Reuter 

REPORT DUE ON OIL IMPORTS AND NATIONAL SECURITY
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
A presidential commission that has been studying oil imports,
including their effect on national security, is to to make its report
soon, the White House said. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the panel,
set up last October to examine U.S. oil import needs, would make its
report soon, probably within the next few weeks. He said National
Security Adviser Frank Carlucci "will wait until that report is in and
then see if there is any special action needed to be taken in the
national security area to implement it." Reuter 

WORLD BANK LIKELY TO URGE CHANGES ON JAKARTA
    JAKARTA, March 22 - 
World Bank President Barber Conable is expected to press Indonesia,
the Third World's sixth largest debtor, to maintain the momentum of
economic policy changes to tackle the slump in its oil revenues,
western diplomats said. Conable, who flew to Indonesia yesterday from
Tokyo, will meet with President Suharto and senior economic ministers.
He said on arrival that the economy of South-East Asia's largest
nation was being managed well, but the slump in world oil prices
called for major policy adjustments. Today the World Bank chief will
visit Bank-funded projects in the eastern section of Java, Indonesia's
most populous island. He will see Suharto on Tuesday after a day of
detailed discussions with ministers tomorrow. Indonesia, the only
Asian member of OPEC, has been severely hit by last year's crash in
oil prices, which cut its oil and gas revenues in half. Japan's state
Export-Import Bank last month agreed to provide around 900 mln dlrs in
untied credits to help Indonesia pay for its share of 21 World Bank
development projects. Indonesia, a country of 168 mln people, has
responded to the oil slump by cutting spending, devaluing its currency
by 31 pct, and trying to boost exports, while using foreign loans to
bridge its deficit. Diplomats said that Conable was expected to press
Suharto and leading economic ministers to maintain the pace of policy
change, particularly in dismantling Indonesia's high-cost protected
economy. "Oil prices, the debt crisis, the world recession, all call
for major policy adjustments and external support," Conable said in
his arrival statement. But with Indonesia facing parliamentary
elections next month, he is likely to avoid anything which would imply
that the Bank is demanding specific changes. "We believe there has
been wise leadership here and the economy is being very well managed,"
Conable told reporters at Jakarta airport. Indonesia has official and
private overseas debts totalling 37 billion dlrs, according to the
Bank, which makes it the Third World's sixth biggest debtor. It has
received 10.7 billion dlrs from the World Bank since 1968. Conable did
not spell out what further changes he would like to see. Last month
the Bank endorsed economic changes already introduced by Indonesia,
but implied it wanted more. Giving a 300 mln dlr loan in balance of
payments support, the Bank said it will monitor progress on
implementation of the government's trade reform measures, and
supported its determination to promote efficiency and longer-term
growth. Indonesia has introduced a series of measures since last May
to boost non-oil exports, liberalise trade and encourage outside
investment. Suharto has also ordered a government committee to look
into which of Indonesia's 215 state-run companies could be sold. But
in a report last month, the U.S. Embassy said the government appeared
divided over how far to take its reforms. Western analysts say that in
particular the government is unsure how far to go with dismantling
Indonesia's high-cost monopolies, which control core areas of the
economy. Central bank governor Arifin Siregar said this week that
Indonesia faced very limited economic choices. It could not spend its
way out of trouble because this would increase the balance of payments
deficit and domestic inflation. He said the main objective was to
raise exports outside the oil and natural gas sector. Indonesia's
current account deficit is projected by the government to fall to 2.64
billion dlrs in the coming financial year which starts on April 1,
from an estimated 4.1 billion in 1986/87. REUTER 

U.S. OIL TAX BREAK PROPOSAL TO BE EXAMINED
    WASHINGTON, March 18 - 
The White House said a proposal for a tax break for the oil industry
would undergo review. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Reagan
had no position on recommendations submitted by Energy Secretary John
Herrington to encourage investment in the hard hit domestic oil
industry. But Fitzwater noted that Reagan did have a fundamental
objection to tax rises and special tax breaks. He said that even
though Herrington's recommendation did not agree with existing policy,
"We'll take a look at it." The review will be undertaken by the
president's Domestic Policy Council. Herrington's proposal was
reported by the Washington Post to have been made in a letter to
Reagan submitting a study that found the United States would be
importing half of its oil by the 1990s, threatening U.S. national
security. Reuter 

CANADIAN ROXY IN NEW ALBERTA OIL DISCOVERY
    CALGARY, Alberta, March 19 - 
<Canadian Roxy Petroleum Ltd> said a new oil discovery in the Peerless
Lake area of north-central Alberta is capable of flowing at over 1,000
barrels of oil a day from a lower zone and more than 1,500 barrels a
day from a separate upper zone. Canadian Roxy has a 35 pct interest in
the five-year royalty free well, known as the Canadian Roxy et Al
Trout A14-8-89-3 W5M. Texaco Canada Inc holds 25 pct, MLC Oil and Gas
Ltd 15 pct, Northstar Energy Corp 13.5 pct and Tricentrol Oils Ltd
11.5 pct. Canadian Roxy said drilling has started on a follow-up
exploratory well about one mile northwest of the discovery well. The
company said it holds a net 6,500 acres in the vicinity of the
discovery and a seismic program is underway to evaluate further
drilling opportunities. Reuter 

BP U.K. REFINERY DUE TO PARTLY RE-OPEN NEXT WEEK
    LONDON, March 30 - 
The British Petroleum Co PLC (BP.L) oil refinery at Grangemouth,
closed after an explosion and fire eight days ago, is expected to
partially reopen next week, a refinery spokesman said. He said the
entire 178,500 bpd refinery has been shut since the accident which
killed one person and damaged the site's hydrocracker. The main units
will resume operation next week but the hydrocracker will be closed
for an unspecified period. The spokesman said the refinery had been
operating at about half its capacity since end-January due to overhaul
work on part of the complex. The overhaul is expected to end by late
April. REUTER 

MOBIL <MOB> RAISES WEST COAST CRUDE POSTINGS
    New York, April 1 - 
Mobil Corp said it raised its west coast crude postings, effective
today. The Buena Vista light grade, at 26 degrees api gravity, was
raised 1.35 dlrs a barrel to 15.55 dlrs/bbl, while the Huntington
Beach light grade, at 16 degrees, was raised about 1.75 dlrs/bbl to
14.10 dlrs/bbl. The heavier Wilmington grade, at 17 degrees, was
increased 1.20 dlrs to 14.30 dlrs/bbl. Kern River crude, at 13
degrees, was increased 1.00 dlr to 13.00 dlrs/bbl. Mobil also said
that effective today it changed its gravity adjustment scale as
follows: From 20 degrees to 34 degrees API, Mobil will adjust its
price 0.015 of a ct per one-tenth of an API degree. Below 20 degrees
API, the company will adjust its price 0.020 ct per one-tenth of a
degree. Crude grades from 34 degrees API to above 40 degrees are
unaffected. Reuter 

CLOSURE OF BP SWEDEN REFINERY FORECAST
    STOCKHOLM, April 3 - 
A Swedish Finance Ministry committee forecast that British Petroleum
Plc <BP.L> may have to close its refinery in Gothenburg because of an
anticipated worsening of the Swedish petroleum industry's
competitiveness. It said in a report that the future of the Swedish
refining business was bleak due to the steady drop in domestic oil
consumption since the mid-1970s, a possible tightening of rules on
sulphur content and competition from Norway's Mongstad facility of
<Den Norske Stats Olieselskab> (Statoil) <STAT.OL> when its expansion
is completed in the 1990s. The committee said the BP refinery, which
lacks a de-sulphurisation plant, was likely to be closed or sold
unless costly investments were made to enhance the facility's capacity
to refine a broader range of products. But the committee noted that
capacity utilisation had in recent years been above that of the
European refining industry on average. The BP plant, in which Sweden's
state-owned <OK Petroleum AB> has a 22 pct, started up in 1967 and has
an annual capacity of 4.7 mln tonnes. There was nobody at British
Petroleum immediately available for comment. 

OPEC DEFENDING 18 DLR PRICE, SUBROTO SAYS
    JAKARTA, March 13 - 
Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said OPEC is deliberately under its
production ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels to defend its 18 dlr a barrel
price target. He told reporters at an energy conference in Jakarta
that OPEC had decided to maintain its price level of 18 dlrs. "We are
deliberately defending the price, so OPEC production is less than 15.8
(mln) at the moment," he stated. Asked if OPEC would increase
production if prices went above 18 dlrs a barrel, he said this would
be decided at the next OPEC meeting in June. "We will discuss the
market situation then," he added. He said a meeting of the OPEC
Differentials Committee had been postponed because "there is no need
for the meeting." He did not elaborate. The committee had originally
been due to meet in Vienna this week. REUTER 

BP SAYS NO PLANS TO CLOSE SWEDISH REFINERY
    LONDON, April 2 - 
The British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> said it had no plans to close its
refinery in Gothenburg, despite forecasts by a Swedish finance
ministry committee that it might be planning such a move. The
committee said the refinery's future looked bleak because the Swedish
petroleum industry's competitiveness was expected to worsen unless it
invested, and because of the effects of a possible tightening of rules
on sulphur content. But BP said the unit, in which Sweden's <OK
Petroleum AB> has a 22 pct stake, had performed well both technically
and financially up to and including the first quarter of 1987. Current
restrictions on sulphur emissions and known future plans for both
Sweden and export markets did not cause it any serious problems, it
said in a statement. The refinery started up in 1967 and has an annual
capacity of 4.7 mln tonnes. REUTER 

API SAYS U.S. CRUDE OIL OUPUT OFF FROM YEAR AGO
    WASHINGTON, March 19 - 
The American Petroleum Institute said that U.S. crude oil production
in February declined 9.8 pct from year-ago levels to about 8.3 mln
barrels a day. In its monthly report on U.S. oil supplies and stocks,
API said that domestic demand for petroleum products, as measured by
products supplied, continued to rise reaching 16.3 mln barrels a day
in the month, up 1.5 pct from February 1986. API noted the drop in
crude oil output coupled with a drop in natural gas liquids
production, which was off 11 pct from February 1986 levels,
represented a decline in U.S. production of more than one mln barrels
a day. API said the decline in domestic production and the rise in
demand brought petroleum imports to about six mln barrels a day in
February, a 30.3 pct increase from last year's level. So far this
year, API said growth in domestic demand, which was up 2.9 pct from
last year's year-to-date level, has slowed in comparison to the
accelerated growth in the last half of 1986. It said crude oil
production for the first two months of 1987 was off 8.6 pct from the
comparable year-ago period while crude imports were up 30.6 pct.
Reuter 

CHINA CLOSES SECOND ROUND OF OFFSHORE OIL BIDS
    PEKING, March 12 - 
China has closed the second round of bidding by foreign firms for
offshore oil exploration rights, the China Daily has reported. It
quoted a spokesman for the China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC) as
saying China signed eight contracts with 15 foreign firms for blocks
in the Pearl River mouth and south Yellow Sea covering a total area of
44,913 sq km. Second round bidding began at the end of 1984 and only
one well has so far produced results -- Lufeng 13-1-1, 250 km south-
east of Shenzhen, with an output of 6,770 barrels a day. The well was
drilled by a group of Japanese companies. The spokesman added CNOOC
was ready to enter into contracts for offshore blocks before third
round bidding began. He did not say when this would be, but added the
contracts would not be bound by restrictions imposed during the second
round. China has signed 36 oil contracts and agreements with 37
companies from 10 countries since 1979, when offshore exploration was
open to foreigners. Eleven contracts were terminated after no oil was
discovered. Foreign firms have invested 2.1 billion dlrs on offshore
China since 1979. REUTER 

SAUDI FEBRUARY CRUDE OUTPUT PUT AT 3.5 MLN BPD
    ABU DHABI, March 2 - 
Saudi crude oil output last month fell to an average of 3.5 mln
barrels per day (bpd) from 3.8 mln bpd in January, Gulf oil sources
said. They said exports from the Ras Tanurah and Ju'aymah terminals in
the Gulf fell to an average 1.9 mln bpd last month from 2.2 mln in
January because of lower liftings by some customers. But the drop was
much smaller than expected after Gulf exports rallied in the fourth
week of February to 2.5 mln bpd from 1.2 mln in the third week, the
sources said. The production figures include neutral zone output but
not sales from floating storage, which are generally considered part
of a country's output for Opec purposes. Saudi Arabia has an Opec
quota of 4.133 mln bpd under a production restraint scheme approved by
the 13-nation group last December to back new official oil prices
averaging 18 dlrs a barrel. The sources said the two-fold jump in
exports last week appeared to be the result of buyers rushing to lift
February entitlements before the month-end. Last week's high export
levels appeared to show continued support for official Opec prices
from Saudi Arabia's main crude customers, the four ex-partners of
Aramco, the sources said. The four -- Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp
<MOB>, Texaco Inc <TX> and Chevron Corp <CHV> -- signed a long-term
agreement last month to buy Saudi crude for 17.52 dlrs a barrel.
However the sources said the real test of Saudi Arabia's ability to
sell crude at official prices in a weak market will come this month,
when demand for petroleum products traditionally tapers off. Spot
prices have fallen in recent weeks to more than one dlr below Opec
levels. Saudi Arabian oil minister Hisham Nazer yesterday reiterated
the kingdom's commitment to the December OPEC accord and said it would
never sell below official prices. The sources said total Saudi
refinery throughput fell slightly in February to an average 1.1 mln
bpd from 1.2 mln in January because of cuts at the Yanbu and Jubail
export refineries. They put crude oil exports through Yanbu at 100,000
bpd last month, compared to zero in January, while throughput at
Bahrain's refinery and neutral zone production remained steady at
around 200,000 bpd each. REUTER 

U.S. OFFICIALS DEFEND OIL RESERVE SALE PLAN
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker and Office of Management and Budget
chief James Miller defended an administration plan to sell the U.S.
Naval Petroleum Reserves. In response to hostile questioning from a
member of the House Appropriations Committee, the officials said the
plan was justified to help bring the fiscal 1988 budget deficit and to
get the government out of the oil business. Miller acknowleged the
estimated sale proceeds at 3.3 billion dlrs would actually bring down
the deficit by about 2.2 billion dlrs because of the loss of revenues
from the sale of oil from the reserves. Miller said the sale price may
end up higher. "We'd sell it to the highest bidder," Miller said. "If
we can get more we'll take it." Reuter 

CONFIDENCE IN OPEC FIRMS U.S. ENERGY FUTURES
    NEW YORK, March 5 - 
Renewed confidence in OPEC's ability to limit production helped U.S.
energy futures settle above yesterday's closing prices, according to
analysts. They also said the heating oil contract found additional
support from a short-covering rally on the close. April crude closed
24 cts higher to 17.75 dlrs. April heating oil was 1.47 cts higher to
47.91 cts a gallon. "Most traders expected follow through profit-
taking from yesterday but the market found suport from bullish reports
that OPEC is producing within its quota," said Simon Greenshields, a
vice president with Morgan Stanley and Co Inc. News today, including
OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman statement that OPEC February production
did not exceed its official quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day, helped
bouy prices, traders said. A Reuter survey found OPEC production in
early March was 14.7 mln bpd. In addition to short-covering, heating
oil found support from traders buying it against sales of gasoline and
crude, as well as from expectations for continued drawdowns in stocks
as refiners shut down for maintenance, traders said. Unleaded gasoline
for April finished 0.55 cent higher to 51.24 cts a gallon. Reuter 

OIL FIRMS CUT 1987 INDONESIAN EXPLORATION SPENDING
    JAKARTA, March 11 - 
Foreign oil companies will spend less on exploration in Indonesia this
year than last, budgeting 2.7 billion dlrs for calendar 1987 against
1986 spending of 2.8 billion dlrs, the state oil company Pertamina
said. Actual spending last year fell short of the budgeted figure of
3.2 billion dlrs, as oil companies slashed expenditure because of the
crash in world oil prices. Jumardi Jukardi, head of Pertamina's
coordinating board for foreign contractors, said foreign companies
will drill 110 exploration wells and 431 development wells this year,
against 108 and 330 last year. REUTER 

TRITON ENERGY <OIL> AFFILIATE IN CANADIAN FIND
    DALLAS, March 11 - 
Triton Energy Corp said its 70 pct owned <Canadian Worldwide Energy
Ltd> affiliate's Lasmo et al Tableland 4-36-2-10W2 well in
Saskatchewan flowed 567 barrels of 37 degree gravity oil through a
17/64 inch choke from depths of 8,531 to 8,548 feet and 636 barrels of
oil per day through a 20/64 inch choke from depths of 8,500 to 8,507
feet. Triton said because of the well's status as a deep exploratory
well, production qualifies for a five-year royalty holiday under the
Saskatchewan drilling incentive products. It said the well's initial
production is expected to be restricted to an allowable level of about
300 barrels a day, although it is capable of sustaining much higher
rates. The company said London and Scottish Marine Oil PLC owns a 50
pct interest in the well and its spacing unit, Canadian Worldwide 25
pct, <Saskatchewan Oil and Gas Corp> 10 pct, <Interprovincial Pipeline
Ltd's> Home Oil Co Ltd 7.5 pct and Scurry-Rainbow Oil Ltd <SRB> 7.5
pct. Triton said Royal Dutch/Shell Group's <RD> <SC> Shell Canada Ltd
<SHC> affiliate retains a convertible overriding interest in the well.
Reuter 

ECUADOR NEGOTIATES WITH NIGERIA FOR LENDING OIL
    QUITO, March 25 - 
Earthquake-stricken Ecuador is negotiating with Nigeria to have the
African country lend it 10,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude for
export, Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite told Reuters. He
said Ecuador was negotiating a shipments schedule and the terms of
repaying the loan. Ecuador has suspended crude exports for about five
months until it repairs a pipeline ruputured by a March five tremor.
Santos Alvite added Ecuador is finalizing details for a program under
which Venezuela would temporarily lend the country 50,000 bpd for
export. Reuter 

MOBIL PLAN TO OPEN PEKING OFFICE, CHINA DAILY SAYS
    PEKING, March 3 - 
Mobil Corp <MOB.N> of the U.S. Plans to open an office in Peking to
develop oil exploration opportunities in China, the China Daily said.
It quoted Mobil president Richard Tucker, currently in Peking, as
saying he is optimistic about investment prospects in China and that
Peking will continue to encourage foreign private businesses to invest
here. It said Mobil bought 73 mln dlrs of crude oil and oil products
from China in 1986 and sold it lubricant and fertiliser, but gave no
more details. REUTER 

TREASURY'S BAKER SEES REAGAN OPPOSING OIL TAX
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker told the House Appropriations Committee
that he believes the president remains opposed to an oil import fee.
He said Reagan last year rejected the idea and he added: "In my
personal view he is not likely to change his thinking on that." He
said Reagan last year opposed the idea because the energy industry was
divided on the issue, a tax would require a new bureacracy to
administer and the resulting higher energy prices would harm U.S.
competitiveness. Reuter 

NEXT FEW MONTHS CRUCIAL FOR OIL - HERNANDEZ
     CARACAS, March 26 - 
Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti today told a
meeting of regional oil exporters the next few months will be critical
to efforts to achieve price recovery and stabilize the market.
Hernandez said while OPEC and non-OPEC nations have already made some
strides in their efforts to strengthen the market, the danger of a
reversal is always present. "March and the next two or three months
will be a really critical period," Hernandez said. He said, "We will
be able to define a movement, either towards market stability and
price recovery or, depending on the market, a reversal." Earlier this
week, Hernandez said Venezuela's oil price has averaged just above 16
dlrs a barrel for the year to date. If OPEC achieves its stated goal
of an 18 dlrs a barrel average price, he said, Venezuela's should move
up to 16.50 dlrs. Hernandez spoke today at the opening of the fifth
ministerial meeting of the informal group of Latin American and
Caribbean oil exporters, formed in 1983. Ministers from member states
Ecuador, Mexico, Trinidad-Tobago and Venezuela are attending the two
day conference, while Colombia is present for the first time as an
observer. Hernandez defined the meeting as an informal exchange of
ideas about the oil market. However, the members will also discuss
ways to combat proposals for a tax on imported oil currently before
the U.S. Congress. Following the opening session, the group of
ministers met with President Jaime Lusinchi at Miraflores, the
presidential palace. The delegations to the conference are headed by
Hernandez of Venezuela, Energy Minister Javier Espinosa of Ecuador,
Energy Minister Kelvin Ramnath of Trinidad-Tobago, Jose Luis Alcudiai,
assistant energy secretary of Mexico and Energy Minister Guilermno
Perry Rubio of Colombia. Reuter 

API SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 4.4 mln barrels
in the week ended Feb 27 to 127.10 mln barrels from 131.50 mln the
previous week, the American Petroleum Institute (API) said. In its
weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade group said
gasoline stocks fell 30,000 barrels to 252.92 mln barrels from a
revised 252.95 mln, while crude oil stocks rose 700,000 barrels to
329.38 mln from a revised 328.68 mln. It said residual fuel stocks
fell 380,000 barrels to 38.04 mln from 38.42 mln barrels. API said
refinery runs in the week fell to 12.17 mln barrels per day from a
revised 12.42 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was 78.1 pct,
off from a revised 79.7 pct. Crude oil imports in the week fell to
3.98 mln bpd from a revised 4.22 mln, API added. Reuter 

CHEVRON <CHV>, NIPPON OIL FORM JOINT VENTURE
    SAN FRANCISCO, March 31 - 
Chevron Corp said its Chevron U.S.A. Inc unit and Tokyo-based Nippon
Oil Co Ltd agreed to conduct a joint-venture oil exploration and
development program on selected Chevron leaseholds in the United
States. About 50 onshore and offshore exploratory wells will be
drilled under the agreement and Chevron will be the operator of the
project and pay some costs, the company said. It said Nippon will
contribute an initial investment of more than 100 mln dlrs. The
Japanese government will also participate in the venture by providing
financing to Nippon through the Japanese Oil Corp, Chevron said. It
said drilling will begin during the second quarter. Properties to be
evaluated are located in California, Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma,
Mississippi, Montana, North Dakota, Texas, Utah, and Wyoming, along
with Federal Outer Continental Shelf leases offshore Southern
California and in the Gulf of Mexico, Chevron said. Reuter 

CANADA SETS OIL INDUSTRY AID PACKAGE
    EDMONTON, Alberta, March 25 - 
Canada's federal government will provide a 350 mln dlr oil industry
aid package that includes cash incentives designed to cover one-third
of a company's oil and gas exploration and development costs, Energy
Minister Marcel Masse announced. The aid program will inject about 350
mln dlrs a year into the oil and gas industry and could lead to more
than one billion dlrs in new investment, Masse told a news conference.
The program will affect drilling done anywhere in Canada on or after
April 1, 1987. Masse told reporters that the government's oil industry
aid package is aimed at small and medium sized companies. The aid
package, called the Canadian Exploration and Development Incentive
Program, will restrict the total payments that any individual company
can claim to 10 mln dlrs a year. Masse said the program will probably
generate new employment equivalent to 20,000 people working for a
year. He said oil industry aid is needed because exploration and
development spending dropped by at least 50 pct since world oil prices
fell during the first half of 1986. Energy Minister Masse said the
federal government decided to provide cash incentives so a large
number of non-tax paying companies, mainly small Canadian firms, will
receive the full value of the incentive. Such companies would not
immediately benefit from tax benefits, he said. The federal government
also wanted to deliver an aid program outside the tax system. Finance
Minister Michael Wilson is now reviewing Canada's tax system and plans
to announce tax reform proposals later this spring. An important
feature of the aid program is a decision to let companies issue flow-
through shares, allowing investors to benefit from the subsidy rather
than restricting benefits to only participating companies, he said.
Allowing flow-through shares under the program will make it easier for
companies to attract investors in exploration and development, Masse
said. He told reporters his department is still considering whether to
allow partnerships and other entities to qualify for the subsidy.
Reuter 

AUSTRALIAN MINISTER SEES TARGETED OIL TAX STRATEGY
    SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 24 - 
Australia's crude oil tax strategy is probably best tackled in terms
of a targeted rather than broadly-based approach, Federal Resources
and Energy Minister Gareth Evans told a meeting here. He told the
Australian Petroleum Exploration Association (APEA) annual conference
there was a prospect of developing a package that would recognise the
government's economic priorities while also meeting some of the
industry's concerns. Evans was referring to a nearly completed
government review of oil taxation. Evans said there were plenty of
examples where targeted approaches to oil industry taxation had
produced good results in recent years. These include the reduction in
the top marginal crude excise rate on 'old' Bass Strait oil found
before September 1975 to 80 pct from 87 pct, and the waiver of excise
on onshore oil announced last September, he said. The industry,
through the APEA, has been calling for the elimination of secondary
taxation on oil in order to boost incentives for prospecting against a
background of weak prices and Australia's relatively low exploration
levels. "While nobody wants to add further unnecessary complexity to
an already complex taxation regime, I am inclined to favour these
kinds of tailored approaches ahead of sweeping changes, which leave
(government) revenue much reduced and may still leave a lot of
uncertainty as to what individual companies are going to do in major
areas," Evans said. He said the government did not intend to change
its resource rent taxation (RRT) legislation, now before parliament,
in response to industry calls to allow all exploration expenditure in
a given area to be deductible. As previously reported, RRT is a tax of
40 pct limited to highly prospective offshore areas, based on profits
after a certain rate of return has been achieved for individual
projects. APEA has said it is not a true profit-based tax because
exploration deductibility is limited to successful projects. Evans
said the decision not to change RRT was based more than anything on
the government's desire to ensure the certainty and stability of the
new regime, adding that major investments have already been planned on
the existing ground rules. REUTER 

DOE SECRETARY FAVORS HIGHER SPR FILL RATE
    WASHINGTON, March 18 - 
Energy Secretary John Herrington said he believes the Reagan
Administration will review its decision to cut the fill rate of the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve because of a department report issued
yesterday warning of growing U.S. dependence on oil imports. "As part
of this study, I think the Administration will take the fill rate
under review," Herrington said at a House Energy subcommittee hearing.
The Administration has proposed cutting the fill rate from 75,000
barrels of oil per day to 35,000 bpd in fiscal year 1988 to save
money. "My personal feeling is that is too low. I favor the maximum
fill rate (of 100,000 bpd)," Herrington said. Reuter 

UK CROSS FIELD PRT RELIEF FAVOURS SMALLER FIELDS
    LONDON, March 19 - 
The "cross field allowance" relief on Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT)
announced by U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson this week
will favour smaller non-PRT paying fields, according to stockbrokers
Wood Mackenzie and Co. The cross field allowance offsets up to 10 pct
of qualifying spending on a new oil field against PRT liability of
other fields. It is restricted to new offshore developments outside
the southern basin and yet to gain Annex B approval. A report by the
stockbrokers said that on a new field not paying PRT due to its small
size, the relief would directly benefit in PRT saving on an existing
field. "The cross field allowance will mainly benefit participators in
those fields which have no PRT liability," the report said, adding
that the timing of development of such fields may be advanced. The
government would in effect be subsidising these developments at 7.5
pct of capital expenditure before corporation tax, the report said. On
fields likely to pay PRT in the future, the benefit is of timing.
Although liabilities on other existing fields will be reduced
immediately, liabilities on larger new fields will rise in the future
due to the loss of offsets, it said. In a study on probable fields,
the report said that when the rates of return are examined, the rise
for a PRT-paying field such as Miller, the largest undeveloped oil
field in the U.K. North Sea, is from 18.7 to 19 pct, while the rise
for a small non-PRT paying field such as Kittiwake is 15.9 to 17.9
pct. The report added that in fields which pay PRT, there will be a
cost in being able to have this early relief. Not only will these
costs be unavailable for offset against the field's future profits,
but uplift of some 35 pct on these costs will be lost. Thus, a saving
of PRT of 100 when field development starts will have to be matched by
a rise in PRT of 135 at a later time. Reuter 

BRAZIL MAKES SECOND AMAZON OIL DISCOVERY
    BRASILIA, April 3 - 
The Brazilian state oil company Petrobras has made a second oil
discovery in the Amazon region, President Jose Sarney said. He said
the well had an initial flow of 150,000 cubic meters of gas and 220
barrels of oil per day. It is situated 14 kilometres from the first
well to be discovered in the region last year, which is currently
yielding 500,000 cubic meters of gas and 900 barrels of oil daily. The
wells, the biggest onshore well in the country, are on the banks of
the river Uruc in the Amazon basin 3,600 kilometres (2,250 miles)
north of Brasilia. Reuter 

PHILLIPS <P> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS
    New York, March 12 - 
Phillips Petroleum said it raised the contract price it will for all
grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The increase
brings Phillip's posted price for the West Texas Intermediate and West
Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a bbl. Phillips last changed its crude
oil postings on March 4. The price increase follows similar moves by
USX's <X> subsidiary, Marathon oil, and Sun Co <SUN> earlier today.
Reuter 

MONTEDISON, OTHER REFINERIES TO SHUT FOR WORK
    LONDON, March 12 - 
Selm-Societa Energia Montedison is to close its Priolo crude refining
units from March 15th to March 28th for maintenance, a company
spokesman said. Throughput at the refinery is currently estimated at
140-150,000 bpd, although total capacity is nearer 200,000 bpd.
Several other Mediterranean refineries are currently shutdown for
maintenance, most of which were scheduled some months ago. But
industry sources said that shutdowns may have been rearranged to avoid
running negative-netback crude. Tighter availabilities of products as
a result of the shutdowns in the Med is helping to keep products
markets bullish, particularly for March deliveries, oil traders said.
Garrone's refinery at San Quirico (capacity 130,000 bpd) is due to
shutdown on March 14th for three weeks, and the jointly-owned
ISAB/Garrone refinery at Mellili, capacity 220,000 bpd, is due to
start up around March 20-25th following its closure for maintenance a
month ago, a company spokesman said. The Esso Italiana refineries at
Augusta and Siracusa will not be closing this spring, a spokesman for
the company said. In France, the distillation unit at Societe
Francaise de BP's Lavera refinery has been closed for maintenance
since March 2, and is due to restart early April. Total capacity is
181,900 bpd. It is currently operating at around 50 pct capacity, a
company spokesman said. Shell Francaise's Berre l'Etang refinery will
shut down in early April until mid-June, a company spokesman said.
Capacity is around 150,000 bpd. Compagnie Francaise de Raffinage (CFR)
will close the visbreaker at its La Mede refinery in early April, but
would not affect crude throughput at the refinery, a company spokesman
said. Current capacity is 136,000 bbl/day. Despite current bullish
sentiment in the Med, however, traders noted that crude netbacks are
beginning to look more attractive, and most maintenance shutdowns
should be finished in two to three weeks. As a result, oil industry
sources suggest that the situation may ease by mid-April. Reuter 

PANCANADIAN TO SELL BRITISH INTERESTS
    CALGARY, Alberta, March 3 - 
<PanCanadian Petroleum Ltd> said it agreed to sell its working
interest in its North Sea properties and its British unit, Canadian
Pacific Oil and Gas of Canada Ltd, to Whitehall Petroleum Ltd, a
private British company. PanCanadian, 87 pct-owned by Canadian Pacific
Ltd <CP>, said it would receive 1.7 mln British pounds cash (3.5 mln
Canadian dlrs) at closing, expected in two to three months. It said
the deal is subject to approval by regulators and its partners in the
properties, which consist of exploration wells. It will also retain a
royalty interest in the properties. Reuter 

IRANIAN OIL MINISTER IN UAE TALKS
    ABU DHABI, March 11 - 
Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh is in the United Arab
Emirates (UAE) to discuss oil prices and the general market situation,
Iranian officials accompanying him said. He will meet UAE President
Sheikh Zaid bin Sultan al-Nahayan and Oil Minister Mana Said al-
Oteiba. Aqazadeh arrived last night after a brief stopover in Riyadh,
where he met Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Hisham Nazir. The official
Saudi Press Agency quoted him as saying his talks at Riyadh with Nazir
had been constructive and good. Aqazadeh said Organisation of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) members were agreed on holding
production stable and he reiterated the importance of maintaining oil
prices. OPEC members agreed in December to limit production to 15.8
mln barrels per day for the first half of this year and on a benchmark
price of 18 dlrs a barrel from February 1. Aqazadeh also visted OPEC
members Gabon, Algeria and Libya. The Iranian news agency, IRNA,
quoted him as saying before leaving Tripoli that OPEC should do
everything possible to make oil prices permanently stable. REUTER 

KUWAIT SAYS OPEC 2.4 MLN BPD BELOW CEILING
    KUWAIT, March 24 - 
Kuwaiti oil minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah said OPEC was
producing well below its oil output ceiling and this would help prices
move higher, according to a Kuwaiti newspaper interview. The al-Rai
al-Aam newspaper quoted him as saying OPEC was pumping 2.4 mln barrels
per day (bpd) less than its 15.8 mln bpd ceiling, while consumers were
drawing down their petroleum stocks at a rate of 4.5 mln bpd. As long
as OPEC maintains its output curbs, demand for its oil will rise in
April and May, Sheikh Ali said, adding that Kuwait was strongly
committed to its OPEC quota. REUTER 

OPEC WANTS 18 DLR OIL PRICE - OAPEC OFFICIAL
    BRUSSELS, March 17 - 
OPEC believes world oil prices should be set around a fixed average
price of 18 dlrs a barrel, OAPEC Assistant General Secretary Abdelaziz
Al-Wattari said today. In a speech to a European Community
(EC)/OAPEC/OPEC seminar in Luxembourg released here, Al-Wattari said:
"OPEC believes ...The world energy trade should be kept without
restrictions and should be built around a fixed average price of 18
dlrs." But he warned that defense of the 18 dlr a barrel level had
caused hardship for OPEC countries, who had been forced to curtail
production, and he warned that such cutbacks by OPEC states could not
be sustained in some cases. "For OPEC to stabilize the world oil price
at what is now considered the optimal level of 18 dlrs a barrel, its
member countries have had to undergo severe hardship in curtailing
production," Al-Wattari said. "Such cutbacks ... Cannot, in certain
cases, be sustained," Al-Wattari said. As well as financial and
marketing pressures, some states depended on associated gas output for
domestic use and oil cutbacks had left insufficient gas supplies, he
added. Al-Wattari noted that total OPEC output was below the
organization's agreed ceiling for all member countries in February,
although this had meant sacrifices. The effect of these sacrifices
meant that market stability, though restored to a good level, was
still under pressure, Al-Wattari said. "A lasting stability in the
world market requires a wider scope of international cooperation," he
added. He said some non-OPEC oil producing countries had shown a
political willingness after 1986 to cooperate with OPEC. But although
cutbacks announced by these states were politically significant and
welcomed by OPEC, they were insufficient in terms of volume, he added.
"The overall majority of non-OPEC producers have not responded
sufficiently to OPEC's calls for supply regulation," he said. Al-
Wattari said an 18 dlr a barrel price was optimal as it allowed
investment in the oil industry outside OPEC to continue, while not
generating excessive cash flow for otherwise unviable high-cost areas
outside OPEC. Such a price would no longer encourage protectionist
measures, he added. Fadhil Al-Chalabi, OPEC Deputy Secretary General,
also addressing the seminar, added that discipline was still needed to
prevent violent fluctuations in the oil market. Cooperation between
Arab states and Europe was advantageous for both sides, Al-Chalabi
said, adding he hoped cooperation would ultimately lead to full-
fledged Euro-Arab dialogue. Reuter 

STUDY PREDICTS U.S. DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL
    NEW YORK, March 17 - 
A government study has concluded the U.S. Will be dependent on oil
from the middle east into the next century and must take steps to
reduce its vulnerability, the New York Times said. The newspaper said
the inter-agency government study found a serious oil-dependency
problem due to steadily falling domestic production and rising demand
for imported oil. The study concluded that by 1995 the U.S. Will be
relying on foreign countries for 50 pct of its oil, more than the peak
of 48 pct reached in 1977 and far above the 33 pct rate during the
1973-74 Arab oil embargo. The U.S. Now imports about 38 pct of its oil
needs, up from 27 pct a year ago, the New York Times said. It said
recommendations sent to the White House by Energy Secretary John
Harrington include financial incentives to raise domestic oil
production by one mln barrels a day from the current 8.4 mln barrels.
The newspaper said the administration has placed increased emphasis on
stockpiling oil reserves. It said the view now held is that the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve to be tapped in times of shortages, should
be increased by 100,000 barrels a day, rather than 35,000 as called
for in the 1988 budget. The newspaper said Harrington may propose
restoring the depletion allowance to major producers. "The
administration also plans to renew its efforts to ...Repeal the
windfall profits tax, remove bars to drilling on the outer continental
shelf and repeal the law that limits the use of natural gas in
industrial and utility boilers," it added. The New York Times quoted
Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma as saying the study greatly
underestimated potential U.S. Demand for imported oil in the next
decade and overestimated the amount of domestic oil which would be
produced. REUTER 

SHELL CANADA SCHEDULES ANNUAL REFINERY SHUTDOWN
    CALGARY, Alberta, March 30 - 
Shell Canada Ltd, 72 pct owned by Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <ST>,
scheduled its annual maintenance refinery shutdowns during the next
two months, company spokeswoman Judy Wish said. Wish said refineries
will stockpile production before the shutdowns to maintain normal
supply while maintenance is carried out. Production at Shell's major
refinery at Strathcona Alberta, will be closed for about one month,
Wish said. There will be no layoffs associated with the refinery
maintenance, she added. Reuter 

ECUADOR SAYS SUSPENDS OIL EXPORTS DUE EARTHQUAKE
    QUITO, March 6 - 
Ecuador today suspended its crude oil exports indefinitely due to an
earthquake last night that damaged pumping and crude transport
installations, an Energy and Mines MInistry statement said. It said
the state oil firm Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuatoriana (CEPE)
notified foreign customers that it was declaring force majeure on its
crude exports due to the tremor. Ecuador"s OPEC oil output quota is
210,000 barrels per day (bpd). A senior energy ministry official said
that one pumping station at El Salado on Ecuador's main pipeline was
damaged. He also said an 180 metre section of the pipeline attached to
the bridge over the Aguarico river collapsed. The pumping station was
about 20 km from the Reventador volcano, near the epicentre of the
quake, which Ecuadorean seismologists said registered six on the
12-point international Mercalli scale. The Aguarico bridge was also
close to the volcano, he said. The quake struck northern Ecaudor and
southern Colombia, according to Ecuadorean officials. No injuries were
reported. REUTER 

IEA SEES ONE PCT GROWTH IN 1987 OECD OIL DEMAND
    PARIS, April 5 - 
Growth in oil consumption in the Western industrialised countries is
likely to slow to around one pct this year compared with 2.3 pct in
1986, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said. Oil use in the 24
countries of the OECD increased by around one pct in first quarter
1987 to 35.9 mln bpd, the IEA said in its Monthly Oil Market Report.
Growth in OECD countries is expected to come primarily from transport
fuels, as in 1986. But if average consumer prices are higher than
1986, the rate of growth for these fuels may be below last year's 3.6
pct, it said. The IEA said that assuming crude oil and product prices
stay close to current levels, some destocking by end-users can be
expected. If that happens, natural gas will also regain some of the
market share it lost to heavy fuel in 1986, and there may be slightly
less growth in transport fuels. IEA estimates on April 1 put oil
stocks in the OECD area at 428 mln tonnes, representing 98 days of
forward consumption. This is about the same level as at the begining
of the year. The agency said this flat trend is explained by the
projected seasonal consumption decline in the second quarter of the
year which offset a reduction in stocks. It said initial estimates
indicate that company stocks fell by 1.2 mln bpd in OECD countries in
the first quarter of the year. This followed a small rise in January
of 0.4 mln bpd but a decline of 1.5 mln bpd in February and 2.5 mln
bpd in March. It is possible that final data will show a larger draw,
particulary for March, it said. As crude production also fell, there
is likely to have also been a decline in non-reported stocks,
particularly at sea, the IEA said. Company stocks on land in the OECD
rose to 326 mln tonnes on April 1 against 316 mln on April 1 1986.
Governments built up strategic stocks to 102 mln tonnes against 97 mln
in the period. The year-on-year trend of government stock building is
continuing with year-on-year company stocks also rising, more or less
in line with consumption, after declining for five years, the IEA
noted. Oil stocks on land in the U.S. And Canada were put at 206.6 mln
tonnes on April 1, down from the 214 mln tonnes on January 1 and
equivalent to 94 and 98 days of consumption, respectively. Oil stocks
in Western Europe were 147.4 mln tonnes on April 1, down from the 154
mln on January 1 but still equivalent to 94 days of consumption. World
oil supply fell in the first quarter by about two mln bpd to 45.2 mln
bpd from 47.2 mln bpd in last quarter 1986. This drop was mostly due
to a decline in OPEC crude production to around 15.5 mln bpd in
February/March from 16.5 mln bpd in January and to the seasonal drop
in exports from centrally-planned Economies, the IEA said. Total OPEC
crude oil supply was 15.8 mln bpd in the first quarter, plus 1.4 mln
bpd of NGLs, compared with 17.3 mln bpd of crude in the last three
months of 1986 and 17.9 mln average for the whole of 1986. Supply from
non-OPEC countries totalled 28 mln bpd, against 28.5 mln bpd in the
fourth quarter 1986. A drop in Saudi Arabian output to a tentatively
forecast 3.3 mln bpd in March from 3.6 mln bpd in February was the
largest factor behind the OPEC production decline, the IEA said. Saudi
Arabia"s Opec-assigned output quota is 4.133 mln bpd. REUTER 

HERRINGTON SAYS HE MAY CALL FOR OIL TAX BENEFITS
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
Energy Secretary John Herrington said he may recommend to the White
House that the domestic oil industry be given tax benefits to help it
produce more oil and head off increasing U.S. dependence on foreign
oil. He said also at a news conference that he would recommend to the
White House that the fill rate of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve be
increased from its planned 35,000 barrels per day. The oil reserve
fill rate capacity is 100,000 barrels a day. Herrington said he had
always advocated a greater fill rate for the petroleum reserve, but
the rate had been kept down because of budgetary constraints.
Herrington did not disclose what tax incentives he might advocate, but
U.S. officials have shown interest in tax benefits for oil and gas
exploration and for research and development into new ways to extract
oil which is now considered uneconomical to produce. He made the
remarks in conjunction with the release of the Energy Department's
study on oil's impact on national security. Herrington said that
before he disclosed what recommendations for tax benefits for the oil
and gas industry he might make, he would raise the matter with the
White House Economic Policy Committee to see if the proposals to
increase oil production made good tax policy. He said he would like to
increase U.S. production by one mln barrels a day. The report said
that by the end of the century the United States may be relying on
foreign sources for 50 pct of its oil consumption, posing a serious
economic and national security threat. Reuter 

INDONESIA SEEN AT CROSSROADS OVER ECONOMIC CHANGE
    JAKARTA, March 1 - 
Indonesia appears to be nearing a political crossroads over measures
to deregulate its protected economy, the U.S. Embassy says in a new
report. To counter falling oil revenues, the government has launched a
series of measures over the past nine months to boost exports outside
the oil sector and attract new investment. Indonesia, the only Asian
member of OPEC and a leading primary commodity producer, has been
severely hit by last year"s fall in world oil prices, which forced it
to devalue its currency by 31 pct in September. But the U.S. Embassy
report says President Suharto"s government appears to be divided over
what direction to lead the economy. "(It) appears to be nearing a
crossroads with regard to deregulation, both as it pertains to
investments and imports," the report says. It primarily assesses
Indonesia"s agricultural sector, but also reviews the country"s
general economic performance. It says that while many government
officials and advisers are recommending further relaxation, "there are
equally strong pressures being exerted to halt all such moves." "This
group strongly favours an import substitution economy," the report
says. Indonesia"s economic changes have been welcomed by the World
Bank and international bankers as steps in the right direction, though
they say crucial areas of the economy like plastics and steel remain
highly protected, and virtual monopolies. Three sets of measures have
been announced since last May, which broadened areas for foreign
investment, reduced trade restrictions and liberalised imports. The
report says Indonesia"s economic growth in calendar 1986 was probably
about zero, and the economy may even have contracted a bit. "This is
the lowest rate of growth since the mid-1960s," the report notes.
Indonesia, the largest country in South-East Asia with a population of
168 million, is facing general elections in April. But the report hold
out little hope for swift improvement in the economic outlook. "For
1987 early indications point to a slightly positive growth rate not
exceeding one pct. Economic activity continues to suffer due to the
sharp fall in export earnings from the petroleum industry." "Growth in
the non-oil sector is low because of weak domestic demand coupled with
excessive plant capacity, real declines in construction and trade, and
a reduced level of growth in agriculture," the report states. Bankers
say continuation of present economic reforms is crucial for the
government to get the international lending its needs. A new World
Bank loan of 300 mln dlrs last month in balance of payments support
was given partly to help the government maintain the momentum of
reform, the Bank said. REUTER 

INDONESIA LIMITS OIL PRICE IMPACT-FINANCE MINISTER
    JAKARTA, March 30 - 
Indonesia has minimised the economic impact of falling oil prices,
kept inflation within limits and boosted exports, Finance Minister
Radius Prawiro said. Indonesia was badly hit by last year's steep
plunge in crude prices, which cut revenue from oil exports by half.
But Prawiro was quoted by Indonesian newspapers as telling President
Suharto that inflation was kept to around nine pct in the financial
year ending tomorrow, against around 4.3 pct the previous year.
Exports were estimated to have risen by seven pct, he said, although
he did not give complete figures. The depressed economy forms the main
backdrop to general elections next month in Indonesia, a major
producer of rubber, palm oil, tin, timber and coffee. Prawiro said
1986/87 had also been difficult because of the appreciation of
currencies like the yen and the mark against the dollar, which
increased Indonesia's debt repayments. He said the economy would have
suffered more from the world economic recession if the government had
not devalued the rupiah by 31 pct last September. In an editorial on
the economic outlook, the Jakarta Post said the government must press
ahead with measures to deregulate the economy to help boost non-oil
exports. The English-language daily said bigger export earnings were
needed to finance not only imports but also the country's growing
foreign debt, estimated at around 37 billion dlrs. "About 50 pct of
our foreign debt obligations fall due within the next three to five
years and will steadily increase the debt servicing burden," the paper
said. However, end-investors were seen bargain hunting in expectation
of a further yen interest rate decline, dealers said. Most dealers
were cautious in the face of the dollar's nosedive today and the
possibility of a U.S. Interest rate rebound to halt further dollar
depreciation. A 4.7 pct coupon and volume of 1,400 billion yen for the
April 10-year bond proposed by the Finance Ministry this afternoon
were taken favourably by the market. REUTER 

UNOCAL <UCL> UNIT CUTS CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES
    LOS ANGELES, March 2 - 
Unocal Corp's Union Oil Co said it lowered its posted prices for crude
oil one to 1.50 dlrs a barrel in the eastern region of the U.S.,
effective Feb 26. Union said a 1.50 dlrs cut brings its posted price
for the U.S. benchmark grade, West Texas Intermediate, to 16 dlrs.
Louisiana Sweet also was lowered 1.50 dlrs to 16.35 dlrs, the company
said. No changes were made in Union's posted prices for West Coast
grades of crude oil, the company said. Reuter 

EXPLOSION AT BP OIL REFINERY IN SCOTLAND
    GRANGEMOUTH, Scotland, March 22 - 
An explosion followed by a fire ripped through a British Petroleum
(BP) oil refinery, killing one man. A BP spokesman said the fire was
confined to one plant at the 700-acre refinery at Grangemouth, 25
miles west of Edinburgh. The cause and extent of the damage had yet to
be determined. Two people were killed in a previous explosion and fire
at the plant on March 13. That incident is still being investigated,
the spokesman said. REUTER 

VENEZUELA TO ANNOUCE PARTNER FOR COAL VENTURE
    CARACAS, March 24 - 
Petroleos de Venezuela S.A will announce within two weeks the name of
a foreign consortium it has chosen to help exploit the coal deposits
at Guasare in western Zulia state, PDVSA president Juan Chacin Guzman
said. Chacin told reporters the foreign partner will provide capital
as well as technical and marketing expertise to the Carbozulia
project, which the state oil company will manage. PDVSA officials said
that among those who bid for the partnership is a consortium between
Agip Carbone, a subsidiary of Italy's Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi
(ENI), and Atlantic Richfield <ARC> of the United States. Minister of
Energy and Mines Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said discussions are
currently taking place to finalize the terms of the contract with the
foreign partner. PDVSA vice-president Pablo Reimpell said last week
the first shipment of coal from the Carbozulia project should be made
during the final quarter of 1987, and would measure between
100-150,000 metric tons. Plans call for production to eventually reach
500,000 mt annually. Reimpell said the original investment in the
project will be approximately 8 billion bolivars. Reuter 

U.K. OIL INDUSTRY SAID NOT PERMANENTLY DAMAGED
    LONDON, March 4 - 
The U.K. Offshore oil industry has suffered from last year's collapse
in oil prices but should not sustain any permament damage, Minister of
State for Energy Alick Buchanan-Smith said. The drilling, diving and
supply vessels sectors had been most affected, Buchanan Snith told the
House of Commons energy committee. He noted, however, that oil
companies were still spending six mln stg a day to maintain North Sea
production. He added that a report by the manpower services committee
which said 14,000 jobs were lost in the industry in 1986 should be
seen in the context of a total workforce of 300,000. Prices of North
Sea Brent-grade crude dipped to a low of 8.50 dlrs a barrel last July
from a peak of over 30 dlrs the previous November. They recovered to
around 18 dlrs a barrel after last December's OPEC meeting and Brent
traded today around 17.15 dlrs. Buchanan-Smith said the U.K. Has no
intention of adopting OPEC style quotas, noting that Britian is an
oil-consuming as well as an oil-producing nation. Reuter 

SAUDI OIL MINISTER SEES NO NEED TO ALTER PACT
    RIYADH, March 16 - 
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer said OPEC's December agreement
to stabilize oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel was being implemented
satisfactorily and there was no immediate need to change it. Nazer, in
an interview with Reuters and the television news agency Visnews, said
Saudi Arabia was producing around three mln barrels per day (bpd) of
crude oil, well below its OPEC quota. Saudi Arabia, the world's
largest oil exporter, will continue to restrain production as long as
other OPEC members adhere to the pact, Nazer said. The 13-nation OPEC
agreed in December to cut its production ceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8
mln bpd and abide by fixed prices averaging 18 dlrs a barrel from
February 1. Nazer, in his first interview since succeeding Ahmed Zaki
Yamani last October, said: "I do not foresee any need for new measures
before the 25th of June when our (next OPEC) meeting will take place
as scheduled." Nazer said OPEC was producing below 15.8 mln bpd and
all members were abiding by its agreements. "We've heard news every
now and then of violations but they were not at all verified," he
said. OPEC production curbs have boosted world oil prices from a
13-year low of around eight dlrs a barrel last August to near 18 dlrs
after announcement of the December pact. Spot market prices slipped
some two dlrs in February but have firmed in the past two weeks to
near OPEC levels as traders gained confidence in OPEC price and output
discipline. Nazer said Saudi Arabia would continue to produce below
its 4.133 mln bpd quota if necessary to defend the 18 dlr price. "As
long as all the OPEC members adhere to the program as devised in
December, Saudi Arabia will continue to adhere to the agreement," he
said. Current production of three mln bpd includes oil from the
Neutral Zone shared with Kuwait, but not sales from floating storage,
Nazer said. King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, in an interview with Reuters
and Visnews on March 11, said the kingdom wanted oil price stability
and called on non-OPEC producers to avoid harmful competition with
OPEC. "Saudi Arabia doesn't decide prices by itself but certainly
desires price stability," he said. Nazer said the output level did not
mean the kingdom had returned to a role of "swing producer" within
OPEC. Saudi Arabia allowed its output to sink as low as two mln bpd in
August 1985 to compensate for slack demand and over-production by some
OPEC states. "Saudi Arabia is not playing that role. It is being
played by OPEC membership as a whole because the reduction in the 15.8
mln bpd share of OPEC in the market is being shared by other members
of OPEC," Nazer said. Nazer said OPEC estimated demand for its oil
during third quarter this year would be around 16.6 mln bpd. But he
said if circumstances changed "I am sure then the OPEC members will
consult with each other and take the necessary measures." Oil analysts
say the OPEC pact could come under strain when demand for petroleum
products generally falls in the northern hemisphere spring and summer.
Nazer said he was satisfied with the extent of cooperation from non-
OPEC producers. Norway, Egypt and the Soviet Union agreed to help OPEC
by restraining production or exports after he visited them on OPEC's
behalf earlier this year. "We did not ask any country to do anything.
These were programmes they thought were necessary to stabilise market
conditions and to help themselves attain better pricing conditions,"
Nazer said. He said it was up to countries that declined to cooperate
-- such as Britain -- to come up with their own proposals if they saw
fit. 

SHEARSON LEHMAN UPGRADES U.S. OIL STOCKS
    NEW YORK, March 17 - 
Analyst Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers said he
recommended a number of oil stocks today now that it is apparent that
OPEC has succeeded in holding to its prescribed production quotas. "It
is clear that OPEC, through jawboning and quota restraint, will boost
the price of oil," Margoshes said. Prices of oil stocks rose sharply
today in response to higher oil prices and optimism about OPEC quotas.
Margoshes said he recommends Imperial Oil <IMO.A>, up 1/2 to 49-1/8,
Standard Oil Co <SRD>, 7/8 to 62-3/4, Exxon <XON> one to 83-1/8, and
Chevron <CHV> 1-1/8 to 54-7/8. In addition, Margoshes said he
recommended Atlantic Richfield <ARC> on a short-term basis, though he
said he is still suspect about its debt situation. Atlantic Richfield
rose 1-3/4 to 77. He said "the market could come down to test the 16
dlr a barrel level again, but the main thrust of investing in oil is
positive right now. Before the year is out we will see higher oil
prices." He noted that belief that the government is interested in
raising the strategic reserves is factored into the rise in oil stocks
today. Reuter 

IEA SAYS OPEC FEBRUARY CRUDE OUTPUT 16.1 MLN BPD
    PARIS, March 6 - 
OPEC produced an average 16.1 mln barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil
in February, down from 16.5 mln the previous month and an overall 17.3
mln bpd in fourth quarter 1986, the International Energy Agency said.
A few OPEC countries last month exceeded the production quotas set at
their last conference in December, but liftings were reduced from
several countries, it said in its latest monthly oil market report.
These cutbacks were due in part to buyer resistance to fixed prices,
introduced from February 1, particularly for fixed volumes over an
extended period. It gave this breakdown for OPEC crude output, in mln
bpd FOURTH QTR 1986 JANUARY 1987 FEBRUARY 1987 SAUDI ARABIA 4.9 3.7
3.8 IRAN 1.6 2.2 1.9 IRAQ 1.6 1.6 1.7 UAE 1.3 1.2 1.2 KUWAIT 1.0 1.0
1.0 NEUTRAL ZONE 0.5 0.4 0.4 QATAR 0.3 0.3 0.2 NIGERIA 1.3 1.2 1.2
LIBYA 1.0 1.0 1.0 FOURTH QTR 1986 JANUARY 1987 FEBRUARY 1987 ALGERIA
0.6 0.6 0.6 GABON 0.1 0.2 0.2 VENEZUELA 1.6 1.6 1.6 ECUADOR 0.2 0.2
0.2 INDONESIA 1.3 1.2 1.2 TOTAL 17.3 16.5 16.1 The IEA said while
Saudi production stayed below its quota of 4.133 mln bpd, actual sales
might exceed output due to Norbec stock disposals. Contracts for Saudi
crude have been signed, but it is understood they have much leeway in
required liftings. The report said the reduction in Iraqi air attacks
on Iranian export facilities allowed Iran's output to reach 2.2 mln
bpd in January, but buyer resistance to fixed prices apparently cut
February production. It said Iraqi exports are about 1.0 mln bpd
through the Turkish pipeline, 0.1-0.2 mln by truck through Jordan and
0.2-0.3 mln via the Saudi pipeline to Yanbu. Internal consumption is
some 0.3 mln bpd. The IEA estimated total non-communist world oil
supply in February at 45.0 mln bpd, down from 45.4 mln in January and
47.0 mln in the fourth quarter. The February world supply figure is
made up of 16.1 mln bpd OPEC crude production, 1.4 mln bpd OPEC
natural gas liquids (ngls), 16.6 mln bpd OECD crude and ngls, 8.3 mln
bpd other developing countries' crude and ngls, net trade of 1.1 mln
bpd with centrally planned economies, 0.5 mln bpd of non-conventional
crudes (such as tar sands and oil from coal) and 1.0 mln bpd from
processiing gains. Within the OECD, preliminary Norwegian data show
record 1.06 mln bpd output in January, with lower production expected
in February in accordance with government curtailments of
approximately 80,000 bpd, announced in support of OPEC. REUTER 

STUDY SAYS OIL PRICE FALL SPURS BANKRUPTCIES
    WASHINGTON, March 23 - 
The sharp drop in world oil prices the past year triggered a 60 pct
increase in bankruptcies in the country's oil states, according to a
study released by the American Petroleum Institute (API). API said the
Dunn and Bradstreet study found that business failures rose nationally
by 6.9 pct in 1986 over 1985, but in the "oil patch" of the Southwest
the increase was 59.9 pct. It said bankruptcies in Texas were up 57.4
pct, Oklahoma, 55.9 pct, Colorado, 55.8 pct and Louisiana, 46.6 pct.
In Alaska, failures rose by 66.2 per cent, it said. API also said that
three of the states with the highest number of bank failures last year
were large oil and gas producers - Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. Reuter


TEXACO CANADA CUTS CRUDE PRICES 64 CANADIAN CTS/BBL, PAR GRADE TO 22.26 CANADIAN DLRS








WORLD BANK CHIEF PLEDGES SUPPORT TO INDONESIA
    JAKARTA, March 24 - 
World Bank president Barber Conable pledged the Bank's support to help
Indonesia adjust to lower world oil prices, but said further
deregulation of its protected economy was needed. Speaking to
reporters after talks with President Suharto, he said he expected
Jakarta to do more to liberalise the economy and deregulate trade
policy. Indonesia, hurt by the fall in oil prices last year which cut
the value of its crude exports in half, is the Third World's sixth
largest debtor. It has received 10.7 billion dlrs from the World Bank
in the past 20 years. Conable said the World Bank, which granted
Indonesia a 300 mln dlr loan last month to help its balance of
payments, was prepared to back Jakarta in taking the right steps to
adjust to lower oil and primary commodity prices. "We are prepared to
support those steps which we believe are consistent with the
development of the Indonesian economy," he said. He said Jakarta's
willingness to move quickly after last year's collapse in oil price
saved Indonesia from some of the difficulties now faced by other
countries. Indonesia devalued its currency by 31 pct against the
dollar in September to avoid a balance of payments crisis, and has
announced a series of measures since May intended to stimulate
exports, encourage foreign investment and revitalise the economy.
However, key monopolies in areas like steel and plastics and high
tariff barriers remain in place. Conable arrived in Indonesia on
Saturday and has since met 14 Indonesian cabinet ministers to review
the country's borrowing needs and the impact of falling oil prices on
the country. REUTER 

SAUDI OIL MINISTER SEES NO NEED TO ALTER OPEC PACT
    RIYADH, March 15 - 
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer said OPEC's December agreement
to stabilise oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel was being implemented
satisfactorily and there was no immediate need to change it. Nazer, in
an interview with Reuters and the television news agency Visnews, said
Saudi Arabia was producing around three mln barrels per day (bpd) of
crude oil, well below its OPEC quota. Saudi Arabia, the world's
largest oil exporter, will continue to restrain production as long as
other OPEC members adhere to the pact, Nazer said. The 13-nation OPEC
agreed in December to cut its production ceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8
mln bpd and abide by fixed prices averaging 18 dlrs a barrel from
February 1. Nazer, in his first interview since succeeding Ahmed Zaki
Yamani last October, said: "I do not foresee any need for new measures
before the 25th of June when our (next OPEC) meeting will take place
as scheduled." Nazer said OPEC was producing below 15.8 mln bpd and
all members were abiding by its agreements. "We've heard news every
now and then of violations but they were not at all verified," he
said. OPEC production curbs have boosted world oil prices from a
13-year low of around eight dlrs a barrel last August to near 18 dlrs
after announcement of the December pact. Spot market prices slipped
some two dlrs in February but have firmed in the past two weeks to
near OPEC levels as traders gained confidence in OPEC price and output
discipline. Nazer said Saudi Arabia would continue to produce below
its 4.133 mln bpd quota if necessary to defend the 18 dlr price. "As
long as all the OPEC members adhere to the program as devised in
December, Saudi Arabia will continue to adhere to the agreement," he
said. Current production of three mln bpd includes oil from the
Neutral Zone shared with Kuwait, but not sales from floating storage,
Nazer said. King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, in an interview with Reuters
and Visnews on March 11, said the kingdom wanted oil price stability
and called on non-OPEC producers to avoid harmful competition with
OPEC. "Saudi Arabia doesn't decide prices by itself but certainly
desires price stability," he said. Nazer said the output level did not
mean the kingdom had returned to a role of "swing producer" within
OPEC. Saudi Arabia allowed its output to sink as low as two mln bpd in
August 1985 to compensate for slack demand and over-production by some
OPEC states. "Saudi Arabia is not playing that role. It is being
played by OPEC membership as a whole because the reduction in the 15.8
mln bpd share of OPEC in the market is being shared by other members
of OPEC," Nazer said. Nazer said OPEC estimated demand for its oil
during third quarter this year would be around 16.6 mln bpd. But he
said if circumstances changed "I am sure then the OPEC members will
consult with each other and take the necessary measures." Oil analysts
say the OPEC pact could come under strain when demand for petroleum
products generally falls in the northern hemisphere spring and summer.
Nazer said he was satisfied with the extent of cooperation from non-
OPEC producers. Norway, Egypt and the Soviet Union agreed to help OPEC
by restraining production or exports after he visited them on OPEC's
behalf earlier this year. "We did not ask any country to do anything.
These were programmes they thought were necessary to stabilise market
conditions and to help themselves attain better pricing conditions,"
Nazer said. He said it was up to countries that declined to cooperate
-- such as Britain -- to come up with their own proposals if they saw
fit. REUTER 

U.S. WARNS OF DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
A White House-ordered report said that growing U.S. reliance on
foreign oil into the year 2000 could have potentially damaging
implications for national security. The Energy Department study
discusses several options to curb reliance on foreign oil, but makes
no recommendations. President Reagan and most Congressmen have
previously ruled out a tax on foreign oil as a way to curb imports and
to help the depressed domestic oil industry. Energy Secretary John
Herrington said in a statement that "although we have made gains in
energy security in the last six years, this report shows that there is
justification for national concern both over declining competitiveness
of our domestic oil and gas industry and over rising oil imports." The
report said imports last year were 33 pct of U.S. consumption and by
the mid-1990s could rise to 50 pct. Among the report's options to ease
U.S. reliance on foreign oil are several already advocated by the
Reagan Administration. President Reagan ordered the study last
September, citing a determination that the country never again become
captive to a foreign oil cartel, referring to the OPEC-led oil
shortages and sharp prices increases of the 1970s. The report said an
import fee would raise prices and help make it economical for U.S. oil
firms to find and produce new oil, as well as to cut imports, but on
the whole the tax would depress the nation's economy. The study was
outlined in a New York Times report today. Reuter 

WAINCO OIL <WOL> COMPLETES WILDCAT WELL
    HOUSTON, March 17 - 
Wainco Oil Corp said it has completed a wildcat well on its
GrandMarais prspect in Jefferson Davis Parish, La., which is currently
producing at a rate of 1.1 mln cubic feet of gas and 40 barrels of
condensate daily. The company said it has a 20 pct working interest in
the well which is flowing from Lower Frion Tweedel Sand perforations
between 10,104 and 10,110 feet. Additional untested but possibly
productive zones exist behind the pipe, it added. It said the
remaining owners are privately held petroleum companies. Reuter 

UNION PACIFIC <UNP>CLOSES VENEZUELAN PARTNERSHIP
    NEW YORK, March 31 - 
Union Pacific Corp said it has closed the previously announced 50-50
partnership with Petroleos de Venezuela SA, Venezuela's national oil
company, to own a 160,000 barrel per day refinery in Corpus Christi,
Texas. Union Pacific said the partnership, called Champlin Refining
Co, will acquire the refining and distribution system owned and
operated by Union Pacific's Champlin Petroleum Co subsidiary. The
Venezuelan company also signed a 25-year feedstock agreement with the
partnership to supply at least 140,000 barrels a day of Venezuelan
crude oil and naphtha at market related prices. Reuter 

OPEC WITHIN OUTPUT CEILING, SUBROTO SAYS
    JAKARTA, March 3 - 
Opec remains within its agreed output ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels a
day, and had expected current fluctuations in the spot market of one
or two dlrs, Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said. He told
reporters after meeting with President Suharto that present weakness
in the spot oil market was the result of warmer weather in the U.S.
And Europe which reduced demand for oil. Prices had also been forced
down because refineries were using up old stock, he said. He denied
that Opec was exceeding its agreed production ceiling. Asked what
Opec's output level was now, he replied: "Below 15.8 (mln barrels per
day)." He did not elaborate. He said there appeared to have been some
attempts to manipulate the market, but if all Opec members stick by
the cartel's December pricing agreement it would get through present
price difficulties. He predicted that prices would recover again in
the third and fourth quarters of 1987. He also reiterated that there
was no need for an emergency Opec meeting. He said Opec had expected
to see some fluctuations in the spot price. "We hope the weak price
will be overcome, and predict the price will be better in the third
and fourth quarters." Refiners, he said, appeared to have used up old
stock deliberately to cause slack demand in the market and the price
to fall. But Opec would get through this period if members stuck
together. REUTER 

NP ENERGY <NPEEQ> SAYS TRUSTEE APPOINTED
    LOS ANGELES, April 2 - 
NP Energy Corp said the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has indicated it will
appoint a trustee to oversee the company's Chapter 11 bankruptcy
proceedings. It said it hopes the appointment will thwart "hostile"
actions being pursued by two unsecured creditors to whose claims the
company objects. NP further said the Nielsen 1-20 well in Duchesne
County, Utah, has tested 300 barrels of oil per day. NP owns a 61 pct
working interest. Reuter 

OCCIDENTAL <OXY> IN BIG PERU HEAVY OIL FIND
    LOS ANGELES, April 7 - 
Occidental Petroleum Corp said the Shiviyacu-23 development well on
Block 1-AB in the Peruvian Amazon jungle is producing 6,593 barrels of
22 degree gravity oil per day from depths of 9,543 to 9,547 and 9,556
to 9,599 feet. The company said it is drilling a new exploration well
on the block, Southeast Shiviyacu-1, 2.5 miles away. Reuter 

PHILLIPS RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS EFFECTIVE TODAY, WTI TO 17.50 dlrs/bbl




DIAMOND SHAMROCK <DIA> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, MAR 5 - 
Diamond Shamrock said it raised its posted prices for all grades of
crude oil one dlr a barrel, effective yesterday. The one dlr increase
brings West Texas Intermediate, WTI the U.S. benchmark crude, to 17.00
dlrs a bbl, the company said. Diamond Shamrock joined Sun Co, Coastal,
Citgo and Murphy Oil in raising crude oil posted prices one dlr a
barrel yesterday. Reuter 

DIAMOND SHAMROCK RAISED CRUDE BY 50 CTS/BBL TODAY. WTI UP TO 17.50 DLRS.




BP<BP> OFFER RAISES EXPECTATIONS FOR OIL VALUES
    NEW YORK, March 26 - 
British Petroleum Plc's plan to pay 7.4 billion dlrs for less than
half of Standard Oil Co has signalled higher values in the U.S. oil
patch, analysts said. "I think that BP's bid is a very strong
affirmation and clear signal that they have confidence in the U.S.,
and they think the barrel of oil in the ground is going to go higher,"
said Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. BP earlier
today said its U.S. unit planned to tender at 70 dlrs per share for
the 45 pct of Standard it does not already own. "It's a 7.4 billion
dlr price that (shows) OPEC has won the war and oil prices are not
going to crack," said Prescott, Ball and Turben analyst Bruce Lazier.
"Behind that is a huge implication for the rest of the energy issues
out there in the stock market, particularly those that are acquisition
targets," Lazier said. One of those mentioned by Lazier was USX Corp,
an energy-steel concern which had been courted by investor Carl Icahn
and drew the attention of Australian Robert Holmes a Court last year.
Rumors continue to swirl around its stock. Margoshes said he does not
foresee major U.S. oil firms falling into takeover situations for
several years, with the exception of possibly Amerada Hess Corp <AHC>.
He said most of the majors found partners in the last round of
matchmaking which ended two years ago, and others restructured to the
point that they have become unattractive. U.S. oil stocks rallied in
response to the offer. Exxon Corp <XON> rose 1-1/8 to 88-1/2. Chevron
Corp <CHV> jumped 1-1/8 to 58-7/8, and Texaco <TX> climbed 1/4 to
37-3/4. Unocal Corp <UCL> rose 1-3/4, while Occidental Petroleum Corp
<OXY> climbed 1-1/8 to 34-3/4. Amoco Corp <AN> rose 1-3/8 to 83-3/4.
Standard Oil's stock was up 6-1/4 in heavy trading to 71-1/8. Earlier
in the session it had been at a high of 72-1/4. Wall Street has
speculated British Petroleum may boost its offer by several dlrs per
share, but the company maintained it would not raise the 70 dlr bid.
British Petroleum stock rose 2-1/4 to 59-5/8. Analysts said the fact
British Petroleum made such a bid in the first place indicates that
the British oil giant has changed its outlook for the oil industry.
Analysts said last year British Petroleum held one of the more bearish
positions on oil prices. "They said the real price of oil would stay
at 15 dlrs (a barrel) for several years, and I think they beat a hasty
retreat from that point of view," Margoshes said. "They are more
appropriately today looking more optimistically. I believe they are
looking at 18 dlrs (long-term)...also in their heart of hearts they
believe that will be exceeded," Margoshes said. The U.S. benchmark
crude West Texas Intermediate was trading today around 18.60 dlrs per
barrel. Analysts said British Petroleum might have been able to buy up
the rest of Standard Oil for about 50 dlrs per share when oil prices
were falling last year. They said Standard Oil's brightest asset is
its slightly more than 50 pct ownership of the Alaskan Prudhoe Bay oil
field. Analysts also said the company has other interests in the
Alaskan North Slope. Analysts said the Standard investment is
extremely attractive to BP because the U.S. is the largest oil market
and has hard-to-replace reserves. "I think it just fits in with their
long-range plans to increase their position in the U.S. market," Dean
Witter analyst Eugene Nowak said. Analysts said it also raises BP's
visibility ahead of the British government's announced disposal of
31.7 pct of BP stock. The U.K. government said it would dispose of the
holding sometime in the year beginning April one. After acquiring all
of Standard, most of BP's reserves would be in the U.S., but only
about six pct of its stock is held in the U.S. "The only way they can
sell all that stock is to move it into the United States. No other
market can handle all that stock," said L.F. rothschild analyst
Rosario Ilacqua. In 1986, Standard Oil had net losses of 345 mln dlrs
on revenues of 10.02 billion dlrs, compared to a profit the year
earlier of 308 mln dlrs on revenues of 13.82 billion dlrs. Reuter 

ECUADOR BEGINS WORK ON OIL PIPELINE TO COLOMBIA
    QUITO, March 13 - 
Construction workers today began building a 26 km (16 mile) pipeline
to link Ecuador's jungle oilfields to a pipeline in Colombia through
which Ecuadorean crude could be pumped to the Pacific Coast,
Ecuadorean energy minsitry officials said. They said it would take
about two months and at least 15 mln dlrs to build the pipeline from
Lago Agrio in Ecuador to Puerto Colon, Colombia for connection to the
Colombian pipeline, which goes to the port of Tumaco on Colombia's
Pacific Ocean coast. The Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon pipeline is
designed to transport between 30,000 to 50,000 barrels of day (bpd) of
Ecuadorean crude to the Colombian pipeline, they said. The Colombian
pipeline to Tumaco has ample room for Ecuadorean crude, they said. It
is currently transporting about 17,000 bpd out of its 100,000 bpd
capacity, an Ecuadorean energy ministry official said. The Ecuadorean
crude reaching Tumaco will be shipped by boat to Ecuador for refining
into oil products to meet domestic demand. The completion of the
pipeline would allow Ecuador to resume some of production, paralysed
since March six by an earthquake the night before. The tremor ruptured
the country's main pipeline from jungle oilfields to the Ecuadorean
port of Balao, on the Pacific Ocean. Ecuador was pumping about 260,000
bpd before the earthquake. It would take about five months to repair
the pipeline to Balao, government officials said. Ecuador estimates
that it will cost between 145 to 150 mln dlrs to repair oil
installations damaged by the earthquake, energy ministry Javier
Espinosa said. Reuter 

OIL PRICES RISE ON SAUDI EFFORT
    NEW YORK, MARCH 3 - 
Crude oil prices rallied today, moving over 17.00 dlrs a barrel
because of Saudi Arabia's determined effort to support prices,
analysts said. "The Saudis and other OPEC nations are jawboning the
market, hoping to restore confidence and prices and to do this without
another meeting," said Sanford Margoshes, oil analyst with Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc. "But OPEC is not out of the woods yet by a
longshot due to seasonal declines in demand and some cheating," he
added. Oil industry analysts said Saudi Arabia has led the attempt to
get other OPEC members to resist pressures to discount from the
official prices agreed to last december. The analysts said that to get
others to hold the line, Saudi Arabia pushed hard at the meeting of
deputy oil ministers of the Gulf Cooperation Council last weekend and
at the Cooperation Council oil ministers' meeting the previous week.
The Saudis have also offered to support members having difficulty in
selling their oil, analysts said. "They are trying to make sure that
no one discounts, and to prevent that, it appears that Saudi Arabia or
some other OPEC member will allocate some of their oil sales to help
members that lose sales," Margoshes said. He added that the
allocations would probably be in the form of loans to be repaid when
these nations resume sales. Analysts said this would be useful in
keeping in line nations like Qatar, which has had trouble selling oil.
But it is also likely that such assistance would be provided to
Nigeria which is under pressure to extend discounts. Analysts said
that Saudi Arabia, with assistance from OPEC president Rilwanu Lukman,
was trying to avoid an emergency OPEC meeting for fear that it would
give the appearance that the December pact is falling apart. Daniel
McKinley, oil analyst with Smith Barney, Upham Harris and Co said,
"both physical and futures markets have been oversold and it only took
a small spark to bring on a short covering rally." He believes an
Iranian trade mission to Tokyo, which refused discounts to Japanese
buyers, brought Japanese refiners into the market to cover their short
positions. Oil traders said one japanese refiner came into the market
to but 10 cargoes of May Dubai, which sent prices up on Mideast sours,
with Dubai trading up to 16.50 dlrs after trading yeterray as low as
15.63 dlrs and then spilled over into the North sea crude oil market.
Traders said that there have been persistent rumors today that
Japanese buyers are looking to pick up cargoes of Brent for Japan and
European trade sources indidate rumors of vessels being fixed to make
such shipments. North sea brent today rose over 17.00 dlrs with trades
reported as high as 17.05 dlrs, up one dlr. OPEC members' denials that
they are producing over their quotas sparked moves to cover short
postitions. Indonesian oil minister Subroto said today that OPEC
production was below the 15.8 mln bpd quota agreed to last december
but he gave no details on OPEC production against claims it was more
at least one mln bpd above that level. "The production probably is
about their quota level and largely because Saudi Arabia will not
discount and canot sell its oil as a result," Margoshes said. Analysts
have mixed opinions about the extent of the current rally. Some
believe prices can continue to rise if Saudi Arabia and OPEC hold
steady in a refusal to discount. But others said that despite the
rally today there were still several fundamental factors, including
demand, which could cut the rally short. Marion Stewart, an indepedent
petroleum economist, said slow growth in the economies of the U.S. and
OECD would keep demand for oil slack and he now estimates that demand
to rise about 1.4 pct over 1986. Reuter 

USX <X> UNIT TO RAISE MOST CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, March 11 - 
USX's subsidiary, Marathon Petroleum Co, said it will raise its
contract prices for eleven grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel,
effective tomorrow. The increase brings Marathon's posted price for
West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a
barrel. The Light Louisiana grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs
a barrel. Reuter 

GULF ARAB DEPUTY OIL MINISTERS TO MEET IN BAHRAIN
    ABU DHABI, March 2 - 
Deputy oil ministers from six Gulf Arab states will meet in Bahrain
today to discuss coordination of crude oil marketing, the official
Emirates news agency WAM reported. WAM said the officials would be
discussing implementation of last Sunday's agreement in Doha by Gulf
Cooperation Council (GCC) oil ministers to help each other market
their crude oil. Four of the GCC states - Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates (UAE), Kuwait and Qatar - are members of the
Organiaation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and some face
stiff buyer resistance to official OPEC prices. Reuter 

VENEZUELA TO LEND ECUADOR 50,000 BPD OF CRUDE
    CARACAS, March 12 - 
Venezuela will lend Ecuador 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil over
the next few months to help it meet its export commitments, Energy and
Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said today. He said that
under the terms of this loan, agreed during a visit here this week by
Ecuador's Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite, Ecuador will
begin repaying the loan in August. Hernandez Grisanti said the loan
will go part way to offsetting the loss of Ecuador's 140,000 in
exports caused by earthquake damage to 25 miles of pipeline last week.
Ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipeline connecting
its jungle oil fields with the pacific port of Balao was put out of
action. Venezuela has an output quota of 1.495 bpd, while Ecuador's is
210,000 bpd. Santos Alvite said Ecuador will ask OPEC to allow it to
produce 100,000 bpd above its quota when the pipeline is repaired to
offset present production losses. Hernandez Grisanti said also a first
300,000 barrels shipment of Venezuelan crude oil will leave for
Ecuador this weekend to help meet domestic consumption needs. The oil,
part of a five mln additional crude oil loan by Venezuela, will be
processed at Guayaquil refineries. "If we had not supplied oil to
Ecuador the life of this country would have ground to a halt," he
said. Reuter 

ECUADOR CRUDE OIL EXPORTS STOPPED FOR FIVE MONTHS
    QUITO, March 11 - 
Ecuador needs 120 mln dlrs to repair the damage to its oil export
pipeline caused by last week"s earthquake, which will stop crude
exports for five months, energy and mines minister Javier Espinosa
Teran said. Espinosa said yesterday the pipeline, which carries crude
from jungle fields to the Pacific Ocean coast of Balao, would be
repaired with the help of Texaco Inc <TX.N> and a Mexican and an
Argentine firm. President Leon Febres Cordero said two days ago that
Ecuador, an OPEC member, would have to suspend crude exports for four
months due to the quake. Oil traditionally accounts for up to two-
thirds of Ecuador's total exports and as much as 60 pct of government
revenues. Deputy energy minister Fernando Santos Alvite said Ecuador
would have to import six to seven mln barrels of crude oil to meet its
needs until the line was repaired. The Ecuadorean minister at the
Presidency, Patricio Quevedo, told reporters that Venezuela will lend
Ecuador five mln barrels of crude, which would repaid in kind after a
180-day period. He added the Caracas-based Andean Development Corp had
granted a loan of 11.7 mln dlrs towards repairing the pipeline, 50 km
of which had been damaged in the quake. In Quito, Foreign Minister
Rafael Garcia Velasco yesterday summoned ambassadors from about 40
countries to whom he issued appeal for emergency aid for the country.
Only three countries, the U.S., Colombia and Venezuela, had offered
assistance. REUTER 

PICKENS SEES CONTINUED SLUMP IN WORKING RIGS
     DALLAS, March 9 - 
T. Boone Pickens, the Texas oilman and financier, said he believes the
heady days the oil service industry had in the early 1980s, when over
4,500 oil rigs were once reported operating, will not return in his
lifetime. Pickens told Reuters he expects the rig count to drop to
below 600 before recovering. He added that oil prices will eventually
rise to 35 dlrs, then to 50 dlrs after 1990. Currently, some 700 oil
rigs are operating in the U.S., down sharply after oil prices slipped
from 30 dlrs in late 1985 to around 10 dlrs in 1986. Prices are now
around 18 dlrs. The highest number of working rigs was 4,500 in
December 1981. "The rigs won't go back to work until the price of oil
gets above 30 dlrs," he said, adding that while he expects to see 50
dlr a barrel oil, he does not expect to see 2,000 rigs operating in
his lifetime. Pickens is 58. Pickens, who is currently touring the
country promoting his autobiography "Boone," said he does not believe
the U.S. should impose an oil import fee in order to stimulate the
domestic oil industry. Reuter 





IMPERIAL OIL <IMO.A> IN TALKS WITH SUPPLIERS
    TORONTO, March 31 - 
Imperial Oil Ltd, 70 pct-owned by Exxon Corp <XON>, is negotiating
with it major crude oil suppliers concerning the effects of a trial
deregulation of Alberta's shut-in crude oil production, scheduled to
be implemented on June 1, a company spokesman said. "From our point of
view, it's a question of entering into negotiations or discussions to
make appropriate changes to contracts to reflect the changes that are
going to take place on June 1," spokesman John Cote told Reuters in
reply to a query. Commenting on published reports that Imperial had
suspended its oil supply contracts, Cote said: "It's not a question of
cancelling or suspending any of the agreements at this point." On June
1, Alberta's Energy Resources Conservation Board will lift its crude
oil marketing prorationing system, regulating shut-in light and medium
crude production, on a trial basis to the end of 1987. Under the new
system, producers and refiners will be allowed to negotiate volumes of
shut-in oil to be delivered under purchase contracts. Shut-in crude is
the surplus between the total amount of oil being produced and the
amount being purchased by refiners. "We have talked to a number of our
major suppliers, and we've discussed the upcoming change with them,
but nothing has been finalized," Imperial's manager of western crude
supply Gary Strong said. Under Alberta's trial system, Imperial wants
to match a reasonable supply of crude against the company's forecast
demand for its refineries, Strong said. "We have to know what they
have and how that relates to what we need in total," he said. Strong
said figures on the amount of crude production Imperial purchases from
outside suppliers were not immediately available. Reuter 

MEXICAN FIRST QTR CRUDE EXPORTS SEEN AT 15.25 DLRS
    MEXICO CITY, March 30 - 
The average price of mexico's crude oil exports in first quarter 1987
will be 15.25 dlrs per barrel, according to preliminary figures issued
in a press release by the state oil company Petroleos Mexicanos
(PEMEX). It gave no direct comparison with the year-ago figure but
said crude and products sales were expected to rise to 1.99 billion
dlrs this quarter, 420 mln dlrs higher than expected and 22 pct better
than the year-ago quarter. Prospects for the second quarter were
relatively favourable with crude exports seen at 1.320 mln bpd after
an expected 1.324 mln this month, 1.323 in February and 1.395 mln in
January. REUTER 

MOBIL PLANS TO OPEN OFFICE IN PEKING
     PEKING, March 3 - 
Mobil Oil Corp of U.S. Plans to open an office in Peking to develop
oil exploration opportunities in China, the China Daily said. It
quoted Mobil president Richard Tucker, currently in Peking, as saying
he is optimistic about investment prospects in China and that Peking
will continue to encourage foreign private businesses to invest here.
It said Mobil bought 73 mln dlrs of crude oil and oil products from
China in 1986 and sold it lubricant and fertiliser, but gave no more
details. Reuter 

USX <X> UNIT RAISES SOME CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, March 9 - 
Marathon Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of USX Corp <X>, said it
raised the contract price it pays for three grades of crude oil,
effective March 6. Illinois Sweet and Indiana Sweet are both being
raised 50 cts a barrel to 16.75 dlrs/bbl, and the Southern Michigan
grade is being raised 25 cts/bbl, also to 16.75 dlrs a bbl. The West
Texas Intermediate grade was unchanged. Reuter 

COLOMBIA'S MAIN OIL PIPELINE ATTACKED
    BOGOTA, April 3 - 
State-run oil company Ecopetrol said Colombia's main oil pipeline was
bombed again and pumping of 170,000 barrels per day was suspended. A
spokeswoman for the company said that the early morning dynamite
attack was the 31st in the last nine months on the Cano Limon-Covenas
pipeline, which links Colombia's biggest oilfied at Cravo Norte to the
Caribbean. She said about 2,000 barrels of crude were spilled and
could not indicate when pumping would resume. The attack was near
Magangue in northeastern Bolivar province. Ecopetrol is exploiting
Cravo Norte in association with Occidental Petroleum Corp <OXY> and
Shell Petroleum N.V., a unit of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <ST>.
Ecopetrol said in a communique that bombings since last July led to a
loss of more than 110,000 barrels of crude, or the equivalent of 10
mln dlrs. Reuter 

ENERGY/CALIFORNIA OIL PRODUCTION
    LOS ANGELES, March 4 - 
Drilling for oil in California is likely to continue at last year's
sharply reduced levels despite recent gains in crude oil prices,
industry analysts said. Because much of the crude oil in California
fields is thick, heavy and expensive to extract, oil prices would have
to increase to near 1985's levels before any significant recovery is
seen in drilling, they said. "Companies will probably only drill their
best prospects," said John Curti, an analyst with Birr Wilson
Securities Inc. Few new wells now are being drilled. Only 33 rigs,
about one-quarter of the total available, were drilling for oil
onshore in California last week, compared to about 70 last year, said
Bill Bolster of Munger Oil Information Services, which tracks
California drilling activity. "It's in the dregs right now," said
Bolster of the state's drilling activity. Current prices are not
enough to justify increased drilling, said Ed Malmgreen of the
California Independent Producers Association. While an Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries pact to curb production boosted oil
prices early this year, prices eventually fell. Prices for
California's marker grade, Line 63 blend, have slumped about 20 pct in
the last month to 14 dlrs from a high of about 17 dlrs. More than half
of California's oil comes from stripper wells, those producing less
than 10 barrels a day, and that much of that oil costs between 18 and
25 dlrs a barrel to extract, Malmgreen said. "It's not unusual for a
stripper well to cost 18 dlrs," Malmgreen said. Many stripper wells
along the southern California coast produce eight times as much water
as crude oil, and inland wells frequently require the use of steam
injection to spur extraction of the thick, heavy oil, he said. The
outlook for future production in California is clouded by a lack of
exploratory drilling now, analysts said. In the heart of California's
oil patch, Kern County, which produces about two-thirds of the state's
oil, exploratory drilling has slowed to a crawl. Only 55 exploratory
wells were drilled in Kern County in 1986, compared to 137 in 1985,
according to David Mitchell of the state energy commission. So far
this year only five exploratory wells have been drilled. "I don't
think they'll even get to what they did last year," Mitchell said. No
pickup in exploratory drilling is likely for the rest of the decade,
Mitchell said. Along with the fall in drilling has come a decrease in
the number of producing wells and overall production. Between February
and October of 1986, the number of producing oil wells in California
fell 14 pct to 43,521 from more than 50,000, said Bill Guerard of the
California Energy Commission. In line with that decrease, California's
crude oil output fell about 10 pct last year due to low oil prices and
is expected to remain at that lower level, analysts said. Between
February and October 1986, California's crude oil production slipped
from an all-time high of 1.185 mln barrels per day to 1.066 mln bpd,
Guerard said. Total estimated crude oil production in California for
1986 was 408 mln bbls, compared with 424 mln bbls in 1985 and 405 mln
bbl in 1983, according to the California Department of Conservation.
"Production in 1987 will probably hold around 1986 levels," Guerard
said. Reuter 

MADAGASCAR EXTENDS AMOCO OIL EXPLORATION AGREEMENT
    ANTANANARIVO, March 25 - 
Madagascar extended its oil exploration agreement with the U.S. Firm
Amoco Corp <AN> for 17 months to allow for further studies of the
Morondava basin on the southwest coast, a government statement said.
It said the existing five-year agreement, due to expire this July 24,
was extended until the end of 1988 to allow for additional geological
and geophysical studies. Amoco has so far laid 7,100 km of seismic
lines and sunk five exploration wells in the Morondava basin. It may
drill a further three wells before the end of the extended exploration
period, the statement said. Madagascar has signed oil exploration
agreements with four foreign oil companies since 1981. But despite
promising indications of large reserves, no commercial production
plans have yet been announced. The foreign firms - Amoco, Occidental
Petroleum Corp <OXY>, Mobil Corp <MOB> and a unit of <Ente Nazionale
Idrocarburi> - are working in partnership with the National Military
Office for Strategic Industries (OMNIS). Roland Ratsimandresy, the
director general of OMNIS, said at a ceremenony to sign the extension
of the Amoco agreement that his department would intensify oil
exploration with its existing partners and would soon offer a new
round of exploration licences. REUTER 

SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSIT RATES REMAIN FIRM
    BAHRAIN, March 1 - 
Saudi riyal interbank deposits were steady at yesterday's higher
levels in a quiet market. Traders said they were reluctant to take out
new positions amidst uncertainty over whether OPEC will succeed in
halting the current decline in oil prices. Oil industry sources said
yesterday several Gulf Arab producers had had difficulty selling oil
at official OPEC prices but Kuwait has said there are no plans for an
emergency meeting of the 13-member organisation. A traditional Sunday
lull in trading due to the European weekend also contributed to the
lack of market activity. Spot-next and one-week rates were put at
6-1/4, 5-3/4 pct after quotes ranging between seven, six yesterday.
One, three, and six-month deposits were quoted unchanged at 6-5/8,
3/8, 7-1/8, 6-7/8 and 7-3/8, 1/8 pct respectively. The spot riyal was
quietly firmer at 3.7495/98 to the dollar after quotes of 3.7500/03
yesterday. REUTER 

VENEZUELA-ECUADOR OIL LOAN UNDER DISCUSSION
    CARACAS, March 17 - 
Venezuela has still to work out final details of its plan to supply
Ecuador with 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil to compensate that
country for lost exports caused by earthquake damage, a senior
Petroleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) official said. "We have yet to finalize
details on how the compensation will be carried out and how OPEC
production quotas will be affected," he said during the signing of a
joint venture deal with Union Pacific Corp today. He said an agreement
was initialled on a visit last week by Ecuador's deputy energy
minister Fernando Santos Alvite. He pointed out that there are some
contractual points to be considered. Venezuela, possibly unique among
oil exporters, requires its clients to sign final destination clauses
to ensure its oil is not resold on the spot market. Ecuador's oil
minister Javier Espinosa was quoted today as saying Venezuela will
export the oil on Ecuador's account and remit the revenues to Quito.
Ecuador would pay back the oil at a rate of 35,000 bpd. He said
Venezuela's oil would be traded through Ecuadorean state oil company
Cepe, but the PDVSA official said the company never allows third
parties to trade its oil. Reuter 

FITZWATER SAYS REAGAN STRONGLY AGAINST TAX HIKE
    WASHINGTON, March 9 - 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Reagan's record
in opposing tax hikes is "long and strong" and not about to change.
"We're opposed to tax increases.... We will fight tax increases.... We
will deal with it politically in every forum possible," said Fitzwater
when questioned about whether there was any change in the
administration's position. Fitzwater said Reagan's strong feelings
against a tax hike included opposition to an oil import fee. "The
President's position is that he is opposed to it," he said. REUTER 

WEATHER CLOSES ALEXANDRIA PORT, SUMED OIL TERMINAL
    ALEXANDRIA, Egypt, March 13 - 
Strong winds and high seas forced the closure of Egypt's main port of
Alexandria and a nearby oil terminal, port officials said. Tanker
loading at the Suez-Mediterranean Arab Petroleum Pipelines Co in Sedi
Kerir, southwest of here, stopped and officials said five tankers were
at anchorage awaiting improved weather. Reuter 

REAGAN SAYS U.S. MUST DO MORE TO LESSEN RELIANCE ON FOREIGN OIL




CALTEX TO RAISE BAHRAIN OIL PRODUCT PRICES
    NEW YORK, March 24 - 
Caltex Petroleum Corp said it will raise posted prices for naphtha and
several grades of residual fuel in Bahrain, effective March 25.
Caltex, a joint venture of Chevron Corp <CHV> and Texaco INC <TX>,
said its naphtha posting is up four cts a gallon to 43 cts. It said it
is raising its marine diesel oil posting by 30 cts a barrel to 20.24
dlrs a barrel. Light, medium, and heavy fuel oil postings are up 1.50
dlrs a barrel, the company said. This will bring the light fuel oil
price to 16.90 dlrs, medium to 15.50 dlrs, and heavy to 14.60 dlrs,
the company said. Reuter 

CONOCO RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES UP TO ONE DLR BARREL, WTI AT 17.50 DLRS




MARATHON RAISES CRUDE POSTED PRICES 50 CTS A BBL, EFFECTIVE TODAY, WTI AT 17 DLRS/BBL.




ECUADOR TO EXPORT NO OIL FOR FOUR MONTHS, OFFICIAL
    QUITO, March 9 - 
The suspension of Ecuador's crude oil shipments after an earthquake
cut an oil pipeline will last at least four months, a senior Energy
Ministry official said. The official said Ecuador could resume exports
after repairing a 40 km section of the 510 km pipeline, which links
jungle oil fields at Lago Agrio to Balao on the Pacific coast. It
would take about 100 mln U.S. Dlrs to repair the pipeline, the
official, who did not want to be named, told Reuters. Ecuador had
enough oil to meet domestic demand for about 35 days and would have to
import crude to supplement stocks. The earthquake last Thursday night
registered six on the 12-point international Mercalli scale. The
damage to the pipeline was a severe economic blow to Ecuador, where
oil accounts for up to two-thirds of total exports and as much as 60
pct of government revenues. Financially pressed Ecuador, a member of
the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), was recently
pumping about 260,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude, about 50,000 bpd
above the output quota assigned by the cartel, another Energy Ministry
spokesman said. Last year, it exported an average of 173,500 bpd,
according to the central bank. However, Ecuador might build an
emergency 25 km pipeline, costing 15 to 20 mln dlrs, to hook up with a
Colombian pipeline, the first official said. He estimated it could
take about 60 days to build. Ecuador, squeezed by the slide in world
oil prices in 1986, had only 138 mln dlrs in net international
reserves at the end of January, about equal to one month's imports. It
suspended interest payments in January on 5.4 billion dlrs owed to
about 400 private foreign banks. The country's total foreign debt is
8.16 billion dlrs, the eighth largest in Latin America. In Caracas,
President Jaime Lusinchi said Venezuela would loan five mln barrels of
crude to Ecuador over the next three months to make up for losses from
damage to the pipeline. Ecuador asked for the loan to guarantee
domestic supplies and would ship an equivalent volume back to
Venezuela in repayment in May, Lusinchi said. A commission headed by
Venezuelan Investment Fund Minister Hector Hurtado and including
representatives from the interior and defence ministries and the state
oil company Petroleos de Venezuela will travel to Ecuador Tuesday to
evaluate and co-ordinate an emergency relief program, he said. REUTER


SUN RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS ONE DLR ACROSS BOARD. WTI NOW 17.00 DLRS/BBL




U.S. SHOULD REASSESS MIDEAST POLICY - ANALYST
     SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, March 30 - 
The U.S. should reassess its Mideast policy in light of its rising
dependence on imported oil, according to Charles Ebinger of the Center
for Strategic and International Studies. "The prospect of rising
dependence on oil imports from the Gulf, and the recent revelations of
the Tower Commission report, mandate more than ever before the need
for a fundamental reassessment of U.S. interests in the Middle East,"
Ebinger said. He remarks were made in an address to the National
Petroleum Refiners Association meeting. "Although in the short run it
is difficult to see a direct link between Arab anger and threats to
oil supplies, in the current environment it will be increasingly
difficult for moderate Arab leaders to be seen as friendly to U.S.
interests," Ebinger said. Oil traders said threats to oil supplies has
kept crude oil prices strong recently although some believe prices
will be weaker if demand falls in the spring. But William Randol,
analyst at First Boston Corp, said crude oil prices will hold near
current levels this spring. There will be no spring downturn, said
Randol, speaking at the annual refiner meeting. He said there is a 40
pct chance that crude oil prices could move higher in the second half
of the year, following an OPEC meeting scheduled for late June. He
said he expects OPEC will extend its current agreement to restrict
production. OPEC will renew its production pricing agreement in June
because the value of the oil exports of the OPEC producers has
declined along with the U.S. dollar, Randol said. OPEC oil exports are
priced in U.S. dollars, and the dollar has fallen about 30 pct in the
last 18 months. Randol said U.S. crude oil imports will increase 3.5
to four mln barrels per day by 1990 as consumption rises 1.5 to two
mln bpd, and supplies decline two mln bpd. Reuter 

API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 7.35 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 2.89 MLN, CRUDE OFF 4.39 MLN 




DIAMOND SHAMROCK RAISES CRUDE POSTED PRICES ONE DLR, EFFECTIVE MARCH 4, WTI NOW 17.00 DLRS/BBL




ABU DHABI TO REOPEN GULF OILFIELD HIT IN 1986 RAID
    ABU DHABI, March 25 - 
Abu Dhabi's offshore Abu al-Bukhoosh oilfield in the Gulf, shut since
an aerial attack last November, will reopen when new anti-aircraft
defences are ready, and this could be in the next two months, oil
industry sources said. They said the Abu Dhabi government and
Compagnie Francaise des Petroles (Total) <TPN.PA>, whose Total Abu al-
Bukhoosh subsidiary owns 51 pct of the field, have agreed on the
reopening, but that a date has not been definitely fixed. Unidentified
planes hit the field, 100 miles off Abu Dhabi, last November 25. The
raid killed eight workers and destroyed the main living quarters and a
bridge linking a wellhead to the main production platform. Western
diplomats in the region say Iran was responsible but Tehran has blamed
its Gulf War enemy Iraq. Abu al-Bukhoosh was producing 57,000 barrels
per day (bpd) at the time of the attack, but the sources said it would
resume at a maximum of half that level because of reduced staff and
the fact only four of five wellheads were now operable. The sources
said only 80 personnel can be housed in remaining accomodations, the
sources said. Facilities being installed to protect the field include
aircraft detection equipment, anti-aircraft missiles, housing for
military personnel and helicopter landing pads, the sources said. Abu
Dhabi is the largest oil producer in the United Arab Emirates,
accounting for about 800,000 bpd of its total 1.15 mln bpd production,
the sources said. They also said Iran was working to reopen its Sassan
field, part of the same reservoir as Abu al-Bukhoosh and located only
a few miles away. Sassan was heavily damaged by an Iraqi air raid only
10 days before Abu al-Bukhoosh was attacked. REUTER 

THATCHER DEFENDS UK OIL POLICY IN SAUDI INTERVIEW
    JEDDAH, March 25 - 
British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher denied in an interview
published in Saudi Arabia today that her government's oil policy
contributed to weakness in world oil prices. She said the government
was determined not to intervene to influence production decisions by
oil companies operating in the North Sea. "We believe these must be a
matter for the commercial judgment of the oil companies," she told the
Arabic language daily al-Sharq al-Awsat in an interview coinciding
with a visit to London by King Fahd of Saudi Arabia. Thatcher said
this policy had not contributed to the fall in oil prices as North Sea
production was now about the same as in 1984 when prices were close to
30 dlrs a barrel. British production was on a plateau and was unlikely
to increase in the future, she said. "We naturally share the concern
of Saudi Arabia and other OPEC members about the harmful effects of
oil market volatility for both producer and consumer countries,"
Thatcher said. "On our part, we are careful to avoid any actions which
might add to such volatility." REUTER 

EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 8.8 MLN, GASOLINE OFF 500,000, CRUDE OFF 1.2 MLN




PETROBRAS SEES RAISING EXPORT OF FUEL IN 1987
    RIO DE JANEIRO, April 3 - 
Brazil's state oil company Petrobras is pledging to export 4.6 mln
cubic meters of fuel, or 28.9 mln barrels in 1987, a company spokesman
said. He said that represents a total sale worth 600 mln dlrs. The
volume is 27 pct higher over 1986 sales, which totalled 3.6 mln cubic
meters, or 22.6 mln barrels. The United States, Africa and Latin
American are Brazil's main fuel buyers, the spokesman said. Reuter 

SAUDIS DROP CONDITION FOR OIL SALE TO BRAZIL
    RIO DE JANEIRO, MARCH 13 - 
Saudi Arabia has dropped its condition that Brazil secure
international bank guarantees before Saudia Arabia would ship it oil,
the state-oil company, Petrobras, said in a statement. Petrobras said
the Saudis will accept Banco do Brasil credit guarantees. Petrobras
cancelled a 40-mln dlr crude oil purchase from the Saudis yesterday
after they refused to accept a letter of credit from the official Bank
of Brazil. The Saudis had demanded that Brazil get credit guarantees
from leading international banks. Petrobras said the Saudis had been
advised that if they did not change their mind by Monday, Petrobras
would negotiate the purchase of oil with other producers. The
Petrobras statement said the shipment of 2.2 mln barrels will be made
by the Saudis on March 24 as scheduled. The shipment is part contract
signed in February for the Saudis to supply Brazil with 125,000
barrels per day until June. Reuter 

OPEC REAFFIRMS COMMITMENT TO FIXED PRICES, CEILING
    LAGOS, March 11 - 
OPEC has reaffirmed its commitment to fixed crude oil prices of around
18 dlrs a barrel and an overall output ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels per
day (bpd) to defend prices, its president Rilwanu Lukman said. He told
a news conference here "After due consultation with my colleagues in
OPEC, I hereby wish to emphasize that Nigeria and all member countries
of OPEC remain determined to uphold the December agreement by adhering
strictly to their various quotas and official selling prices." Lukman
added no extraordinary OPEC conference was planned. "We are in a
position to re-confirm that, despite misleading news in foreign media
to the contrary, ... OPEC member countries as a whole produced below
their agreed quota in the month of February," Lukman, who is Nigerian
oil minister, said. Lukman put the overall OPEC output shortfall in
February at 900,000 bpd and said this was as a result of their firm
determination to defend official selling prices of 18 dlrs agreed upon
last December in Geneva. The December agreement set an overall output
ceiling for OPEC of 15.8 mln bpd for first half 1987 and restored
fixed prices as from February 1 around a reference point of 18 dlrs.
Oil prices rallied immediately after the Geneva accord but fell again
last month on reports that OPEC was producing more than the agreed
level. "The idea was to suggest that OPEC's agreement would not hold
and this caused some customers to hold back purchases of OPEC oil and
resort to destocking to meet their needs," Lukman said. He said the
900,000 bpd shortfall last February was based on the verified figure
for 10 out of OPEC's 13 members, adding that Nigeria alone had a
shortfall in production of 100,000 bpd. Iraq disassociated itself from
the December agreement, while the production figures of Ecuador and
the United Arab Emirates needed to be verified, Lukman said. "If that
is the price we have to pay to make the agreement succeed, we are
ready ... OPEC is not changing its price level of 18 dlrs," the
group's president said. He said the OPEC price differentials committee
meeting formerly postponed to April had been put off indefinitely.
"Furthermore, no extraordinary meeting of the conference is at the
moment contemplated since most agreements reached in December are
being adhered to," he said. Asked if the committee did not need to
meet soon to narrow the gaps in the prices of the various OPEC crudes
-- fixed in relation to the 18 dlr benchmark -- Lukman replied "We
consider the defence of our prices much more crucial than
differentials." Lukman said OPEC was aware that consumers had heavily
drawn on stocks of both crude oil and refined products to levels well
below this time last year and soon they would return to the market in
search of crude. "We don't see that there is going to be any
difficulty in maintaining the 18 dlr price throughout the rest of the
year," Lukman said. The OPEC president praised non-OPEC oil producers,
which he said had contributed to the group's efforts to stabilise
prices, but he criticised Britain for maintaining its long-held view
not to do anything to help the market. "We are quite confident,
however, that in the long-term with two-thirds of the world's reserves
in OPEC hands, the future is ours. We will use that advantage
responsibly," he said. Lukman described the disruption in Ecuador's
output following an earthquake as tragic, but refused to say if the
South American country would be allowed a higher output quota when it
recovered from the disaster. REUTER 

BANK SEES MODEST RECOVERY IN GULF ARAB ECONOMIES
    ABU DHABI, March 29 - 
The Emirates Industrial Bank has predicted a modest economic recovery
in the Gulf Arab states following higher oil revenues. A bank study,
carried by the Emirates news agency WAM, said total oil revenues of
the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries were likely to reach
39 billion dlrs this year from 33.5 billion in 1986. The GCC groups
Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates (UAE). The bank said the improvement would result from higher
oil prices made possible by last December's OPEC accord to restrain
overall group production. These curbs have pushed up oil prices from
around eight dollars a barrel in mid-1986 to around 18 dlrs. "All
signs point to the possibility of a modest recovery in the economies
of these (GCC) countries, although this expected growth will not be
similar to that of the (1970s) boom years," the study said. It added,
however, that GCC states would experience higher budget deficits this
year because of needs arising from past recession and the difficulty
of making fresh spending cuts. The study said the combined GCC bugdet
deficits would rise to 23.2 billion dlrs from 17.9 billion last year.
It said lower oil exports cut the GCC states' combined trade surplus
to 18 billion dlrs in 1986 from 21.5 billion in 1985. The UAE suffered
a 19.5 pct drop in gross domestic product to 77.6 billion dirhams last
year from 96.4 billion in 1985, it added. REUTER 

ORS SEEKS CANADIAN FUNDS FOR HEAVY OIL TEST
    TULSA, Okla., March 13 - 
<ORS Corp> said <Dominion Securities (Alberta) Inc> has been appointed
to offer common shares in a new Canadaina company being organized to
exploit heavy oil production opportunities in Canada and Western
Europe. ORS said the offer for private sale of the stock being made on
a best efforts basis is designed to raise five mln Canadian dlrs which
the new company will invest in properties and projects using the
Electromagnetic Well Stimulation Process developed by IIT Research
Institute under sponsorship of ORS. Reuter 

STANDARD OIL RAISES ALASKA NORTH SLOPE BY 1.50 DLRS, effective APRIL ONE




WILDLIFE UNIT PROPOSES ALASKA REFUGE OIL STUDY
    WASHINGTON, March 12 - 
The National Wildlife Federation rejected an Interior Department draft
plan to open wilderness lands in Northern Alaska to oil and gas
exploration. The federation, the nation's largest conservation group,
said further study was needed to assess any possible damage that
development might have on the wildlife in the area, the coastal plain
of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Jay Hair, the federation's
executive vice president, called the Interior's research into the
effects of development "so fundamentally flawed that it provides
little or no basis on which to make a public policy decision." Hair
called the department's proposal a "reflection of a largely political
decision," adding "we have no confidence in Interior to represent the
broad public interest in this area." Interior wants to open the 1.5
million acre coastal plain to oil and gas exploration, but it said
only with tough safeguards to protect the area's caribou and musk-
oxen. It said a preliminary survey showed the region could hold
billions of barrels of oil and gas, and that its potential as an
energy resource would never be known without exploration. Interior
said oil on the coastal plain could match the 10 billion barrels found
at Prudhoe Bay, just west of the plain. Under existing law, Congress
must agree to oil and gas exploration, and if it does not act, the
land will remain a wildlife refuge protected from commercial
development. Hair said Interior's report failed to stress the
probability that finding recoverable oil is only 19 pct. He said
Interior's study also failed to weigh oil, gas, fish and wildlife
information the State of Alaska had gathered nor had the department
consulted the Environmental Protection Agency on the possible effects
of exploration. The federation, in letters to Congressmen, proposed
that a nine-member commission be set up to study all aspects of the
issue and report back to Congress in about two years. Hair said the
federation was not opposed to the possible exploration of oil, only
that Interior's study was inadquate to make a sound judgement.
Congressional observers said that at present there was little
sentiment in Congress to open the wildlife area for commercial
exploitation dispite increasing concern that the United States is
becoming overly dependent on foreign oil. reuter 

MEES SAYS SECOND WEEK MARCH OPEC OUTPUT 14 MLN BPD
    NICOSIA, March 16 - 
OPEC produced only about 14 mln bpd of oil in the second week of March
-- 1.8 mln bpd below its ceiling -- largely because of pipeline
problems in Turkey and Ecuador, the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES)
estimated. A landslide breached Iraq's one mln bpd pipeline through
Turkey on March 6 for a week, and earthquakes in Ecuador have shut
down its export pipeline for four to five months. Ecuador has an OPEC
quota of 210,000 bpd. MEES put Saudi Arabian output at 2.9 mln bpd in
the first week of March and 3.1 mln bpd in the second, in addition to
output from the Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. MEES
said Saudi Arabia was pumping more than 300,000 bpd of its total
production into floating storage. Saudi Oil Minister Hisham Nazer told
Reuters and the television news agency Visnews yesterday that Saudi
output, including Neutral Zone production, was around three mln bpd.
The Cyprus-based newsletter also said authoritative Libyan oil sources
said Libya was producing 850,000 bpd, compared with its 948,000 bpd
quota, and that actual liftings are much lower than that. It said one
major Libyan equity producer had partially stopped lifting its 55,000
bpd equity entitlement for March because Libya was insisting on
official prices, but is still lifting 40,000 bpd of debt crude at
official prices and a further 25,000 bpd of "purchase crude." It said
small equity producers, with entitlements of only 2,000 to 3,000 bpd,
had also told Tripoli they could not lift at official prices. MEES
said Iraq had sent a telex to OPEC and member countries calling for
the formation of a committee to study what it said were inequalities
in marketing potential among various members. The newsletter said the
Iraqi letter indicated Baghdad was having difficulty selling crude at
official prices. The Iraqi telex pointed out that some member
countries export substantial volumes of oil that are not subject to
OPEC price regulations -- exports of refined products, equity crude on
which the margins are equivalent to covert discounts and "other forms
of hydrocarbons" which are marketed in package deals with crude oil.
REUTER 

SENATOR SAYS ENERGY REPORT ASSUMPTIONS FLAWED
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
Sen. Pete Domenici, a main sponsor of legislation to set an oil import
fee, said the administration's energy security report was based on
flawed economic assumptions. The New Mexico Republican said the report
did not take into account the last few weeks' drop in domestic oil
production in its statement that an oil fee would raise prices for
consumers. The report said a decline in economic growth as a result of
the fee would reduce tax revenues. "A five dlr (per barrel) oil import
fee will provide the stimulus to create jobs and investment, " and
raise revenues, he said. Reuter 

PEMEX LOWERS FEBRUARY FAR EAST CRUDE OIL PRICES
    MEXICO CITY, March 5 - 
The Mexican state oil company Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) said its Far
East customers would be charged 17.25 dlrs per barrel for Isthmus
crude in February and 14.45 dlrs for the heavier Maya. Pemex said this
was 32 cts less than January Isthmus and 15 cts less than January
Maya. Far East customers, primarily Japan which buys an average
180,000 barrels per day of which 150,000 is Isthmus, pay retroactively
while European and U.S. clients are charged per delivery. Reuter 

SUN <SUN> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS
    New York, March 12 - 
Sun Co said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 50
cts a barrel, effective today. The increase brings Sun's posted price
for the West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50
dlrs/bbl. The Light Louisiana Sweet grade was also raised 50 cts to
17.85 dlrs/bbl. Sun Co last changed its crude postings on March 4.
Reuter 

BRAZIL OIL OUTPUT FELL IN FEBRUARY, USAGE UP
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 26 - 
Brazilian crude oil and liquefied natural gas production fell to an
average 583,747 barrels per day in February from 596,740 in the same
1986 month, the state oil company Petrobras said. The drop was due to
operating problems in the Campos Basin, the country's main producing
area, where output was down to 346,011 bpd from 357,420, a Petrobras
statement said. Consumption of oil derivatives totalled 1.14 mln bpd
in February, 16.7 pct up on February last year but down from the
record 1.22 mln bpd used in October last year. Use of alcohol fuel in
February was 208,600 bpd, 42 pct above February, 1986. Reuter 

SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE PRICES
    NEW YORK, March 4 - 
Southland Corp's Citgo Petrleum Corp said it raised the contract price
it will pay for all grades of crude oil by one dlr a barrel, effective
today. The increase brings Citgo's posted price for West Texas
Intermediate to 17.00 dlrs a bbl. West Texas Sour is also now priced
at 17.00 dlrs/bbl, and Light Louisiana South is posted at 17.35
dlrs/bbl. On February 25 Citgo lowered its crude postings 50 cts to
1.50 dlrs per bbl, and cut WTI one dlr to 16.00. Reuter 

IEA FORECASTS SLOWER GROWTH IN OECD OIL DEMAND
    PARIS, April 5 - 
Growth in oil consumption in the Western industrialized countries is
likely to slow to around one pct this year compared with 2.3 pct in
1986, the International Energy Agency said. Oil use in the 24 member
countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD) increased by around one pct in the first quarter of 1987 to
35.9 mln barrels a day, the IEA said in its latest monthly report.
Growth in OECD countries is expected to come primarily from transport
fuels, as was the case in 1986. But if average consumer prices are
higher than 1986, the rate of growth for these fuels may be below last
year's 3.6 pct. The IEA said assuming crude and product prices remain
nar current levels, some destocking by end-users can be expected. If
that takes place, natural gas will also regain some of the market
share it lost to heavy fuel in 1986, it said. IEA estimates on April
one put oil stocks held in the OECD area at 428 mln tonnes, or 98 days
of forward consumption. This is about the same as at the begining of
the year. The agency said this flat trend is explained by the
projected seasonal consumption decline in the second quarter of the
year which offset a reduction in stocks. Company stocks on land in the
OECD rose to 326 mln tonnes on April one this year compared with 316
mln tonnes in calender 1986 while governments also built up their
strategic stocks to 102 mln tonnes against 97 mln in 1986. The year-
on-year trend of government stock building is continuing with company
stocks rising, more or less in line with consumption, after declining
for five years, IEA said. Oil stocks on land in the United States and
Canada were put at 206.6 mln tonnes down from the 214 mln tonnes on
January one and equivalent to 94 and 98 days of consumption,
respectively. Oil stocks in Western Europe were 147.4 mln tonnes, down
from the 154 mln tonnes on January one but still equivalent to 94 days
of consumption. The IEA said that initial estimates indicate that
company stocks fell by 1.2 mln bpd in OECD countries in the first
quarter of the year. This followed a small rise in January of 400,000
bpd but a decline of 1.5 bpd in February and 2.5 bpd in March. And it
is possible that final data will show a larger draw, particulary for
March, it said. As crude production also fell, there is likely to have
also been a decline in non-reported stocks, particularly at sea, the
IEA said. World oil supply fell through the first quarter by about two
bpd to 45.2 bpd from 47.5 bpd in the last quarter of 1986. This drop
was mostly due to a decline in OPEC crude production to around 15.5
bpd in February/March from 16.5 bpd in January and to the seasonal
drop in exports from Centrally Planned Economies, the IEA said. Total
OPEC oil supply totalled 17.2 bpd in the first quarter of 1987 compare
with 19.3 bpd in the last three months of 1986 while supply from non-
OPEC countries totalled 28 bpd as against 28.2 bpd in the same 1986
period. A drop in Saudi Arabian output to a tentatively forecast 3.3
bpd in march from 3.6 bpd in February was the largest factor behind
the OPEC production decline, the IEA said. Reuter 

SOLV-EX <SOLV> SHELL CANADA <SHC> PACT COMPLETE
    ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., March 12 - 
Solv-Ex Corp said it successfully completed its oil sands pilot
testing program under its agreement with Shell Canada Limited <SHC>
and received a 250,000 U.S. dlr bonus payment. It also said that Shell
Canada exercised its option to take over Solv-Ex's 25 pct working
interest in the construction of the oil facility, relieving it of its
obligation to raise about 62.5 mln Canadian dlrs for plant
construction. It said 30 pct of that loan was guaranteed by the
Government of Alberta. In exchange for Shell's participation, Solv-Ex
said Shell is obligated to pay it an up-front royalty and a running
royalty based on the operating profits of the oil sands facility. It
said the Shell Canada 7,500 barrel per day oil sands project will be
built on Shell's oil sand lease about 40 miles north of Fort McMurray
in the Athabasca region of northern Alberta. Solv-Ex said the project
will cost about 260 mln Canadian dlrs. It said that following a final
feasibility study the plant should open in the early 1990s when oil
prices are expected to exceed 20 U.S. dlrs per barrel. Reuter 

STUDY GROUP URGES INCREASED U.S. OIL RESERVES
    WASHINGTON, March 2 - 
A study group said the United States should increase its strategic
petroleum reserve to one mln barrels as one way to deal with the
present and future impact of low oil prices on the domestic oil
industry. U.S. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750 mln
barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect the economy from an
overseas embargo or a sharp price rise. The Aspen Institute for
Humanistic Studies, a private group, also called for new research for
oil exploration and development techniques. It predicted prices would
remain at about 15-18 dlrs a barrel for several years and then rise to
the mid 20s, with imports at about 30 pct of U.S. consumption. The
study cited two basic policy paths for the nation: to protect the U.S.
industry through an import fee or other such device or to accept the
full economic benefits of cheap oil. But the group did not strongly
back either option, saying there were benefits and drawbacks to both.
It said instead that such moves as increasing oil reserves and more
exploration and development research would help to guard against or
mitigate the risks of increased imports. Reuter 

IRAN SELLING DISCOUNTED CRUDE, JAPAN TRADERS SAY
    TOKYO, March 9 - 
Japanese customers have bought nearly six mln barrels of crude oil
from the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) at a substantial discount
to the official price, and Western traders have received even larger
discounts, Japanese traders involved in the transactions told Reuters.
NIOC has sold its crude for March shipment to Japanese customers with
different formulas. One company has bought 800,000 barrels of Iranian
Heavy at a straight discount of 30-35 cents below the official price,
the sources said. Other deals have been fixed with prices linked to
Oman and Dubai spot prices less a discount, they said. Iran's
discounted sales have not, however, managed to reverse the bullish
tone in the crude oil and products spot markets, oil traders said.
Market sentiment is being influenced more by the colder weather in
Europe, and reports that OPEC's February output was below its self-
imposed quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day. Firmer gas oil on the
London futures, and more bullish sentiment on the New York Mercantile
Exchange futures market are supporting spot price levels, they said.
Another Japanese trading house has paid the official price but through
a processing arrangement will effectively receive a discount, the
sources said. "It's just disguised cheating," one Japanese trader
said. The sources said only one Japanese company had paid the official
price for Iranian oil. It has purchased 1.5 mln barrels of Iranian
Heavy for April shipment for refining in Singapore. They said about
nine VLCCs of Iranian crude have been sold to Western traders with
pricing based 60 pct on the official price and 40 pct on spot prices,
or with part of the price related to processing arrangements. 

ENERGY ANALYST PROPOSES U.S. OIL TARIFF
    WASHINGTON, March 23 - 
Energy analyst Edward Krapels said the United States should consider
an oil tariff to keep U.S. dependence on imports below 50 pct. "On the
supply side, the argument in favor of a contingent, variable import
tariff is most persuasive," Krapels, president of Energy Security
Analysis, Inc said in a statement at a House Energy and Power
subcommittee hearing. "An optimal tariff would be one implemented only
if the international price of crude oil falls below, say, 15 dlrs a
barrel. On the demand side, the obvious policy is an excise tax on
transportation fuels," Krapels said. But William Johnson of the Jofree
Corp disagreed with the oil tariff proposal, saying Congress should
remove price controls on natural gas, repeal the windfall profits tax
on oil companies, allow exports of Alaskan oil and provide tax
incentives for U.S. oil production, or, at the least, preserve
exisiting tax incentives for drilling. He also urging filling the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve at a faster rate. Richard Adkerson of
Arthur Andersen and Co told the subcommittee oil imports were expected
to increase because funds for exploration and development of domestic
oil sources cannot now be economically justified due to low oil
prices. Reuter 

PARIBAS SEEKING TO ADJUST ECUADOR OIL FACILITY
    NEW YORK, March 16 - 
Banque Paribas, which arranged a 220 mln dlr loan for Ecuador last
year to pre-finance oil exports, wants to adjust the terms of the
facility to help the country recover from a devastating earthquake,
bankers said. But the French bank's plan, which would effectively
postpone repayment of about 30 mln dlrs of the loan for several
months, is running into stiff resistance from many of the 52 members
of the loan syndicate. The pipeline that carries all Ecuador's oil
exports was ruptured in the March 5 tremor and will take some five
months to repair at a cost of about 150 mln dlrs to repair. President
Leon Febres Cordero on Friday estimated total damages caused by the
quake at one billion dlrs and said that Ecuador as a result would
maintain January's suspension of interest payments on its foreign
commercial bank debt. Payments were halted in January because of the
drop in the price of oil, which accounts for nearly two-thirds of
Ecuador's export earnings and 60 pct of government revenue. Although
sympathetic to Ecuador's plight, many banks in the Paribas facility
feel that emergency financial relief is a job for international
financial organizations and not for commercial banks, bankers said.
The 18-month oil-financing facility, which was signed last October 28,
is one of the few purely voluntary credits for a Latin American nation
since the region's debt crisis erupted in August 1982. Because it was
a voluntary deal, many bankers feel strongly that the orginal terms
must be adhered to. Otherwise, they fear, the gradual re-establishment
of normal market conditions for Latin borrowers will be set back.
"There's a lot of reluctance by the other banks. They feel it's a
different facility, and so any kind of suggestion of a restructuring
would look bad," one banker commented. Reuter 

CRUDE OIL NETBACKS UP IN U.S., MEDITERRANEAN
    NEW YORK, March 30 - 
Crude oil netback values in complex refineries rose slightly in the
U.S. and the Mediterranean last Friday from the previous week but were
lower elsewhere, according to calculations by Reuters Pipeline. The
soft tone to refining margins reflects large worldwide stocks of
petroleum products and thin trading activity, traders said. In the
U.S. Gulf, sweet crudes rose in value by as much as 26 cts a barrel
for West Texas Intermediate, an increase of 1.4 pct from the previous
Friday, while sour crudes, such as Alaska North Slope, were up one
pct. In the Mediterranean, netback values were up 17 cts to 22 cts a
barrel, with Arab Light up 17 cts a barrel to 18.62 dlrs, a 0.9 pct
increase from the previous Friday and Urals were up 22 cts a barrel to
19.16 dlrs, a 1.2 pct increase. But netbacks for crude oil refined in
Northern Europe was generally lower with Brent valued at 18.89 dlrs,
off 30 cts from the previous friday, and Bonny Light was off 17 cts to
19.58 dlrs a barrel. Refinery netbacks in Singapore were also lower,
with heavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy dropped 10 cts to
16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to 18.09 dlrs. On the
U.S. West Coast, however, netback values for ANS CIF L.A. were weaker
with weak gasoline prices sending the yield at cracking plants down 68
cts to 18.42 dlrs from the previous Friday, as shown below in dlrs a
barrel. TOPPING.........15.63......16.10......14.30
CRACKING........18.42......19.10......16.86 The Mediterranean region
also showed netback values rising last Friday over the previous week
with the largest gains shown by Es Sider and the heavier Urals crude
oil, which were each up 22 cts a barrel last Friday to 19.40 dlrs and
19.16 dlrs a barrel, respectively. Netback values for the
mediterranean region are shown below in dlrs a barrel.
GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 ES
SIDER........19.40......19.18......16.44 ARAB
LIGHT......18.61......18.44......15.52 IRAN
LT.........19.25......19.08......16.16
KUWAIT..........18.51......18.33......15.42 URALS
cif.......19.16......18.94......16.07 Netbacks in Northern Europe's
refinery region were lower last friday from the previous week with
Brent falling 1.6 pct to 18.89 dlrs a barrel. Netbacks for other
grades of oil refined in Northern Europe are shown below in dlrs a
barrel. ................MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27
BRENT...........18.89......19.19......16.77 BONNY
LIGHT.....19.58......19.75......17.15 ARAB
LIGHT......18.49......18.52......16.07 URALS
CIF.......19.02......18.98......16.54 Refinery netbacks in Singapore
were also lower with heavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy
dropped 10 cts to 16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to
18.09 dlrs. Netbacks for other grades of oil refined in Singapore are
shown below in dlrs a barrel. GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR
20.....FEB 27 ATTAKA..........19.23......19.24......16.72 ARAB
LIGHT......18.00......18.10......15.55
OMAN............18.21......18.25......16.31
DUBAI...........18.09......18.21......15.86 ARAB
HEAVY......16.63......16.73......14.24 Reuter 

TEXACO CANADA <TXC> LOWERS CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, Feb 26 - 
Texaco Canada said it lowered the contract price it will pay for crude
oil 64 Canadian cts a barrel, effective today. The decrease brings the
company's posted price for the benchmark grade, Edmonton/Swann Hills
Light Sweet, to 22.26 Canadian dlrs a bbl. Texaco Canada last changed
its crude oil postings on Feb 19. Reuter 

BIDS AWARDED FOR ELK HILLS CRUDE OIL
    LOS ANGELES, March 20 - 
The U.S. Department of Energy said it has awarded bids for about
90,000 barrels per day, bpd, of crude oil from the Elk Hills Naval
Petroleum Reserve in California. The contract period runs from April
one through July one, the DOE said. Successful bidders, the amount of
crude oil and the price per bbl according to the DOE are as follows -
Texaco Inc's <TX> Texaco Trading and Transport 15,000 bpd at 15.79
dlrs and 2,200 bpd at 15.19 dlrs, Beacon Oil Co 7,000 bpd at 15.66
dlrs and 2,500 bpd at 16.04 dlrs, Golden West Refining 8,110 bpd at
15.42 dlrs. Successful bidders, the amount of oil and price per bbl,
according to the DOE continue as follows - Chevron's <CHV> Chevron USA
Inc 3,000 bpd at 14.51 dlrs and 4,000 bpd at 14.61 dlrs, Chevron
International Oil Co 2,600 bpd at 14.41 dlrs and 2,800 bpd at 14.51
dlrs, Newhall Refining Co 6,000 bpd at 15.82 dlrs, Caljet Inc 4,000
bpd at 15.32 dlrs, Casey Co 4,000 bpd at 15.45 dlrs. Also, Cryssen
Refining Inc 4,000 bpd at 15.47 dlrs, Edgington Oil Co 4,000 bpd at
15.54 dlrs, Sound Refining Inc 3,100 bpd at 15.51 dlrs, Atlantic
Richfield Co <ARC> 3,000 bpd at 15.75 dlrs. Successful bidders, the
amount of crude oil and the price per bbl according to the DOE
continue as follows - Orkin Inc 2,679 bpd at 15.24 dlrs, Lunday-
Thagard Co 2,511 bpd at 15.27 dlrs, Golden Eagle Refining 2,500 bpd at
15.37 dlrs, MacMillan Ring-Free Oil Co 1,000 bpd at 15.81 dlrs, 1,000
bpd at 15.71 dlrs and 230 bpd at 16.02 dlrs, Mock Resources 2,000 bpd
at 15.76 dlrs, Petro-Diamond 2,000 bpd at 15.46 dlrs. Reuter 

QATAR UNVEILS BUDGET FOR FISCAL 1987/88
    DOHA, March 1 - 
The Gulf oil state of Qatar, recovering slightly from last year's
decline in world oil prices, announced its first budget since early
1985 and projected a deficit of 5.472 billion riyals. The deficit
compared with a shortfall of 7.3 billion riyals in the last published
budget for 1985/86. In a statement outlining the budget for the fiscal
year 1987/88 beginning today, Finance and Petroleum Minister Sheikh
Abdul-Aziz bin Khalifa al-Thani said the government expected to spend
12.217 billion riyals in the period. Projected expenditure in the
1985/86 budget had been 15.6 billion riyals. Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said
government revenue would be about 6.745 billion riyals, down by about
30 pct on the 1985/86 projected revenue of 9.7 billion. The government
failed to publish a 1986/87 budget due to uncertainty surrounding oil
revenues. Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said that during that year the government
decided to limit recurrent expenditure each month to one-twelfth of
the previous fiscal year's allocations minus 15 pct. He urged heads of
government departments and public institutions to help the government
rationalise expenditure. He did not say how the 1987/88 budget
shortfall would be covered. Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said plans to limit
expenditure in 1986/87 had been taken in order to relieve the burden
placed on the country's foreign reserves. He added in 1987/88 some
2.766 billion riyals had been allocated for major projects including
housing and public buildings, social services, health, education,
transport and communications, electricity and water, industry and
agriculture. No figure was revealed for expenditure on defence and
security. There was also no projection for oil revenue. Qatar, an OPEC
member, has an output ceiling of 285,000 barrels per day. Sheikh
Abdul-Aziz said: "Our expectations of positive signs regarding (oil)
price trends, foremost among them OPEC's determination to shoulder its
responsibilites and protect its wealth, have helped us make reasonable
estimates for the coming year's revenue on the basis of our assigned
quota." REUTER 

INDONESIA OIL CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS END THIS MONTH
    JAKARTA, March 11 - 
Negotiations between Indonesia's state oil company Pertamina and
foreign oil contractors on extension of the standard 30-year
production sharing contract will be concluded by the end of this
month, a Pertamina official said. Jumardi Jukardi, head of Pertamina's
foreign contractors coordinating board, gave no details about the
outcome of the talks. But Pertamina President Abdul Rachman Ramly has
said priority will be given to extending contracts for companies whose
exploration and production contracts expire within the next seven to
10 years. Jukardi, speaking to Indonesian reporters, said the
negotiations would determine whether the 85-15 production sharing
split in favour of Pertamina would be adhered to or altered in some
cases as oil companies are asking for. Hardjoko Seputro, spokesman for
the Mines and Energy Ministry, has said that President Suharto has
agreed in principle to extension of the standard 30-year production
sharing contract to reflect better current depressed conditions on the
international oil market. REUTER 

AUSTRALIAN OIL INDUSTRY TO CONTINUE TAX CAMPAIGN
    SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 24 - 
The council of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association (APEA)
said it will press on with its campaign for major improvements to
Australia's petroleum taxation structure. The council said in a
statement the industry was bitterly disappointed by the Australian
government's position on taxation, as presented in a speech by
Resources and Energy Minister Gareth Evans to the APEA conference. As
earlier reported, Evans said he was inclined to target any tax changes
rather than take a broad-based approach to secondary taxation of
petroleum. APEA had expected the government to make positive responses
to detailed industry submissions seeking the removal of existing
secondary tax disincentives to exploration and development, the
council said. It said it plans to reply in detail to issues raised by
Evans, but its immediate concern was the decision to proceed with the
current resource rental tax (RRT) legislation. Evans told the
conference the government did not plan to accept industry pleas for
changes in the legislation to allow deductibility of unsuccessful
exploration expenditure. "The government's unwillingness to allow the
deduction of unsuccessful exploration expenditure within the whole
offshore area in which RRT applies negates any claim that the tax is
profit based," the APEA council said. The government missed a major
opportunity to persuade oil exploration companies that it had
realistic answers to the industry's concerns, despite its recognition
of the industry's problems, the council said. The industry has called
for the end of all discriminatory secondary taxation of petroleum,
citing them as major disincentives at a time of low oil prices. REUTER


SAUDI OIL MINISTER FORESEES NO NEED FOR NEW OPEC MEASURES BEFORE JUNE 25




TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS REAGAN UNLIKELY TO ALTER OPPOSITION TO OIL IMPORT FEE




EXXON (XON) SEES SYNFUELS ROLE BY YEAR 2000
    HOUSTON, March 30 - 
Development of costly shale oil, liquified coal and other kinds of
synthetic fuels, halted in recent years because of cheap and abundant
petroleum supplies, will become economic again when world oil prices
top 30 dlrs a barrel, an Exxon Co USA executive said. Joe McMillan, a
senior vice president, told Reuters after addressing a Houston meeting
of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, "By early in the next
century, synthetics should play a significant role in this country's
energy supply." McMillan also told reporters at a news conference that
he believed synthetic fuels would become economic to develop when
world oil prices reached a 30 to 40 dlr a barrel price range. "You're
talking about a 50 pct increase in crude oil prices, but I think that
time is coming and we've got to be prepared," McMillan said. He
predicted U.S. oil demand would rise by about one pct annually in the
next few years while the nation fails to replace its oil reserves
through exploration. By the turn of the century, world oil prices will
be significantly higher because of declining supplies, McMillan said.
Ashland Oil, Inc. chairman John Hall, who also spoke at the meeting,
advocated some form of federal tax incentives to help spur development
of synthetic fuels. The United States, Hall said, has nearly 500
billion tons of demonstrated coal reserves, an amount more than triple
that of all the world's known oil reserves. "We must encourage
research now in order to make synfuels competitive later," Hall said.
The average lead time for development of a shale oil or liquified coal
project is between five and ten years. Until last year, the federal
government had subsidized synfuels development through the U.S.
Synthetic Fuels Corp., a research program created during the Carter
Administration with the goal of developing replacements for up to two
mln barrels of oil. The corporation was shut down last April when
Congress refused to continue funding its eight billion dlr budget
because of uneconomic projects based on forecasts of 50 dlrs a barrel
oil and 10 dlr per mcf natural gas during this decade. Reuter 

OPEC SAYS FEBRUARY OUTPUT UNDER CEILING
    VIENNA, March 5 - 
OPEC output in February was "well below" the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling it
set in December and all countries are strictly adhering to their
quotas, the OPEC news agency Opecna quoted an OPEC secretariat
official as saying. The official was quoted as saying that lower
output was the result "of member countries' firm determination to
defend the organisation's official price of 18 dlrs per barrel, and to
refrain from selling any quantity below that price." The unnamed
official was further quoted as saying that no OPEC meeting was
foreseen before the next biannual OPEC session planned to start on
June 25. The official gave no figure for February output. The
statement said only that "the reduction in total supplies, namely
actual exports of crude oil and products, plus local deliveries in
member countries, is even more pronounced as those supplies fell very
noticeably during that month." "No matter what the pressure on member
countries by lifters to align the official selling price to the
ongoing market price, member countries are, without exception,
strictly adhering to the official selling price in spite of the
financial hardship this may entail," the statement said. "The very
recent improvement in the price structure is an indicator of such
determination by the organization to stick to the official selling
price," the statement said. Free spot market prices rose from around
14.50 dlrs a barrel in early December last year to near OPEC's
official levels towards the end of the year, after the OPEC pact.
There has been oil industry speculation that OPEC might have to hold
an extraordinrary meeting prior to its scheduled June session to
discuss reports of overproduction by some states and strains on the
differential matrix, which prices each OPEC crude according to its
quality and distance from main markets. The official said in the
statement that no such emergency session was scheduled "because of
member countries' firm determination to defend the price (system)"
agreed in December. Opec"s differential committee was to have met in
Vienna starting April 2 but this session has been postponed, with no
new date set, according to an official of the United Arab Emirates,
which chairs the seven-state body. Other members are Algeria, Kuwait,
Saudi Arabia, Libya, Nigeria and Qatar. REUTER 

IRAQ REPLACES OIL MINISTER IN BIG GOVT SHUFFLE
    BAGHDAD, March 23 - 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein carried out his first major government
shakeup in five years tonight, naming a new oil minister in shuffling
three posts. One minister was dropped in the shuffle, announced in a
presidential decree. It gave no reason for the changes in the
government of the Arab Baath Socialist Party which has ruled Iraq
since a revolution in 1968. The decree named the head of the Iraqi
National Oil Company (INOC), Isam Abdul-Rahim al-Chalaby, to take over
as oil minister replacing Qassem Ahmed Taqi. Taqi, appointed oil
minister in the last significant government reorganization in 1982,
was moved to be minister of heavy industries. Reuter 

PAPUA NEW GUINEA PLANS RESOURCES INVESTMENT AGENCY
    PORT MORESBY, March 5 - 
The Papua New Guinea Government will establish a public corporation to
invest in resources projects, Minerals and Energy Minister John
Kaputin said. "We intend to provide a means through which less
privileged individuals can become part owners and beneficiaries from
the development of mining and petroleum projects," he told Parliament.
Existing policy allowing the state up to 30 pct equity in major mining
projects and 22.5 pct in oil and gas projects would be maintained, he
said. The planned agency could take over the state's equity in current
developments. Kaputin said Papua New Guinea was experiencing a boom
with exploration companies spending about 60 mln kina annually on
about 150 mining and 23 petroleum projects. "The Government is
determined to ensure that Papua New Guinean ownership in minerals and
petroleum projects increases in an orderly way," he said. Kaputin did
not say when the corporation would be established or exactly what form
it would take, but said the government would study whether it should
be directly involved in exploration or development. REUTER 

HOUSE SPEAKER BACKS OIL IMPORT FORECAST PLAN
    WASHINGTON, March 12 - 
House Speaker Jim Wright endorsed a proposal to require the president
to take action to reduce oil imports if they threaten to top 50 pct of
U.S. consumption. Wright told reporters the plan by Sen. Lloyd
Bentsen, a fellow Texas Democrat, was positive and useful. Oil imports
peaked in 1977 at 47 pct, were short of 36 pct last year and this year
are up over 40 pct, Bentsen said. The Bentsen proposal, supported by
24 other Senators, would would require the president to issue annual
three-year oil import forecasts. In any year they threatened to top 50
pct, he would be ordered to propose quotas or other solution. Reuter 

SAUDIS DROP CONDITION FOR OIL SALE TO BRAZIL
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 16 - 
Saudi Arabia has dropped its condition that Brazil secure
international bank guarantees before Saudia Arabia would ship it oil,
state-oil company Petrobras said in a statement. Petrobras said the
Saudis will accept Banco do Brasil credit guarantees. Petrobras
cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude oil purchase from the Saudis yesterday
after they refused to accept a letter of credit from the official Bank
of Brazil. The Saudis had demanded that Brazil get credit guarantees
from leading international banks. Petrobras said the Saudis had been
advised that if they did not change their mind by Monday, Petrobras
would negotiate the purchase of oil with other producers. The
Petrobras statement said the shipment of 2.2 mln barrels will be made
by the Saudis on March 24 as scheduled. The shipment was part of a
contract signed in February for the Saudis to supply Brazil with
125,000 barrels per day until June. REUTER 

AUSTRALIA SAID TO RELY TOO MUCH ON OIL TAXES
    SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 23 - 
The government's over-reliance on revenue from crude oil is adversely
affecting Australia's economic performance, Australian Petroleum
Exploration Association (APEA) chairman Dennis Benbow said. Over one-
third of Australia's indirect tax income is derived from oil at a time
of falling domestic output and weak crude prices, he told the APEA
annual conference here. This dependence on oil-generated revenue
distorts the country's economic performance directly by acting as a
disincentive to new exploration and indirectly by affecting trading
competitiveness through high energy costs, he said. Australia's
medium-term liquid fuel self-sufficiency position is posing a major
economic threat, yet the government's response has been to load new
tax burdens on the oil industry, Benbow said. Domestic oil output from
existing fields is expected to fall to 280,000 barrels per day (bpd)
in fiscal 1992/93 from 546,000 bpd in 1985/86, reflecting mainly the
decline of the Bass Strait fields, he said. Bass Strait reserves are
now two-thirds depleted, with the three largest fields 80 pct
depleted, he said. By 1992/93, Bass Strait output is expected to be
just over half the 1985/86 level, assuming a number of so far
undeveloped fields are brought on stream and enhanced recovery from
existing fields goes ahead, Benbow said. Government projections of
output from as yet undiscovered fields range from 40,000 to 130,000
bpd, he said. Australian liquid fuel demand is forecast to rise to
680,000 bpd in 1992/93 from 565,000 in 1985/86, implying a crude oil
gap of between 270,000 and 360,000 bpd in five years time, he said. At
present world oil prices and the current value of the Australian
dollar, annual oil imports in 1992/93 would cost between 3.2 billion
and 3.6 billion dlrs, Benbow said. Despite intensive exploration in
the early 1980's, the addition to reserves has been inadequate, he
said. For example, the 409 mln barrels discovered in the five years
1980-84 represent about two years' consumption, he said. He called on
the government to review its tax policies to restore incentive to
exploration. REUTER 

ECUADOR OFFICIAL SEEKS OIL AID IN VENEZUELA
    CARACAS, March 11 - 
Ecuador's deputy energy minister Fernando Santos Alvite arrived here
last night for talks on further Venezuelan assistance to his country's
oil industry following last week's earthquake, officials said. Ecuador
was obliged to suspend crude oil exports for an expected five months
as a result of damage to 25 miles of pipeline linking its jungle oil
fields with the Pacific port of Balao. Oil normally accounts for 60
pct of its exports. Fellow OPEC member Venezuela has already agreed to
lend Ecuador five mln barrels of crude, to be repaid in kind after 180
days, to help meet its domestic consumption needs. Reuter 

IRANIAN OIL MINISTER ARRIVES IN ALGERIA
    ALGIERS, March 6 - 
Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh arrived in Algiers at the
head of a large delegation for talks on stabilizing oil prices, the
official news agency APS said. In a brief arrival statement, he said
Iran and Algeria were engaged in "continuous and stronger cooperation"
on the world petroleum market and had "deployed considerable efforts
to stablise petroleum prices." He was greeted on arrival by Belkacem
Nabi, the Algerian Minister of Energy, Chemical and Petro-Chemical
Industries. Reuter 

SAUDI ARABIA REITERATES COMMITMENT TO OPEC ACCORD
    BAHRAIN, March 2 - 
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer reiterated the kingdom's
commitment to last December's OPEC accord to boost world oil prices
and stabilize the market, the official Saudi Press Agency SPA said.
Asked by the agency about the recent fall in free market oil prices,
Nazer said Saudi Arabia "is fully adhering by the ... accord and it
will never sell its oil at prices below the pronounced prices under
any circumstance." Saudi Arabia was a main architect of December pact
under which OPEC agreed to cut its total oil output ceiling by 7.25
pct and return to fixed prices of around 18 dollars a barrel. Reuter 

SHELL CANADA SAID IT RAISED CRUDE PRICES BY 47 CANADIAN CTS A BARREL TODAY




CRUDE OIL PRICES UP AS STOCKS, OUTPUT FALL
    NEW YORK, March 6 - 
U.S. crude oil prices rose above 18 dlrs a barrel this week and
industry analysts said the price could rise another dollar as
inventories fall. "OPEC is keeping its production down, and in the
cash market there is tight supply of crude with short transportation
time to major refining centers," said Daniel McKinley, oil analyst
with Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. "That could send prices 50 cts
to a dollar higher," he added. The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas
Intermediate rose to 18.15 dlrs a barrel today, a rise of 1.50 dlrs
this week. The rally in oil prices this week came after prices fell in
February more than two dlrs from its high of 18.25 dlrs a barrel. "Oil
traders were pulling prices down on the assumption that oil stocks
were building and OPEC was producing well above its 15.8 mln bpd
quota, but now both of those assumptions have come under question,"
McKinley said. Yesterday the International Energy Agency in its
monthly report said that oil stocks in the OECD area, or in
industrialized nations, were drawn down by 1.3 mln bpd during the
first quarter of this year. IEA estimates that the draw in oil stocks
during the first quarter of this year will come largely from oil
companies whose inventory levels by April one will be an estimated 326
mln tonnes, or about 74 days consumption. Industry analysts also said
the estimate of a 3.5 mln bpd draw in stocks made by Shell Chairman
Peter Holmes yesterday fed speculation that other major companies were
destocking. Traders said the destocking has come about as a result of
a so-called buyers strike, which kept refiners from buying officially
priced OPEC oil in an effort to get the organization to offer
discounts to the official price. "This struggle between the companies
and OPEC is the ultimate game of chicken but it will be resolved
relatively soon. I would imagine by about the middle of the month
(March)," the general trading manager of an international oil company
told Reuters in a telephone interview. For its part OPEC has moved to
win this game by cutting excess supplies from the market by a
reduction of its own output, traders said. A Reuter survey estimates
OPEC output to be 14.7 mln bpd this week. Also, an earthquake in
Ecuador yesterday led it to suspend oil exports indefintiely and force
majeure its shipments. "This will reduce short-haul availabilities by
about 250,000 bpd almost immediately and the longer the suspension
continues, the larger the draw in stocks will be for companies
expecting it to be there," McKinley said. International oil traders
said that other short-haul crudes, such as North Sea Brent, were also
scarce because Asian refiners bought the oil after absorbing a lot of
the readily available Mideast crudes earlier this week. If this
pattern continues then oil companies will bid up the price of oil as
they purchase for their refineries, trading managers at several
companies told Reuters. But there were skeptics who said they wondered
how long OPEC can retain its unity if buyer resistance continues.
Stephen Hanke, chief economist at Friedburg Commodity Management, said
OPEC production was lower "because of the Saudi cut (to 3.1 mln bpd)
and this could spell trouble if it gives other members an incentive to
exceed their quotas." He added, "The Saudis will be picking up the tab
for other members who produce over their quota, and the drain on the
Saudis will continue, forcing them to cut output maybe as low as 2.5
mln bpd to support the 18 dlrs average price," he added. There are
also signs of some OPEC crudes being sold in the spot market at below
OPEC official prices, traders said. Oil traders said Nigerian Brass
River sold for delivery into the U.S. Gulf at a price related to North
Sea brent, which traded this week at 17.60 dlrs, far below the
official price of 18.92 dlrs for the similar quality Bonny Light.
Iranian oil is also surfacing in the U.S. Gulf and the Far East at
reported discounts to its 17.50 dlrs official price. "There is a lot
of oil priced on government-to-government deals, which are below
official prices and this is probably being resold," one international
trader said. Reuter 

MEXICAN FIRST QTR CRUDE EXPORTS SEEN AT 15.25 DLRS
    MEXICO CITY, March 30 - 
The average price of mexico's crude oil exports in first quarter 1987
will be 15.25 dlrs per barrel, according to preliminary figures issued
in a press release by the state oil company Petroleos Mexicanos
(PEMEX). It gave no direct comparison with the year-ago figure but
said crude and products sales were expected to rise to 1.99 billion
dlrs this quarter, 420 mln dlrs higher than expected and 22 pct better
than the year-ago quarter. Prospects for the second quarter were
relatively favourable with crude exports seen at 1.320 mln bpd after
an expected 1.324 mln this month, 1.323 in February and 1.395 mln in
January. REUTER 

NO IMMEDIATE PLANS TO CLOSE REFINERY - ESSO SAF
    PARIS, March 18 - 
ESSO SAF <ESSF.PA>, the French subsidiary of Exxon Corp <XON>, said it
had no immediate plans to shut down one of its two refineries. Exxon's
new president Lee R. Raymond said earlier that it could decide to
close a French refinery. An ESSO SAF spokesman said a closure was a
hypothesis that depended on the evolution of the market and
refineries' ability to make money. He said Port Jerome west of Paris
and Fos sur Mer on the Mediterranean had benefitted from new
investment over 1985-86 and had last year broken even after stock
losses. The Port Jerome refinery has an annual production capacity of
seven mln tonnes while Fos sur Mer's is five mln, the spokesman added.
Industry sources said the easiest plant to dispose of would be Fos sur
Mer because it is a single refinery, while the Port Jerome refinery is
attached to a wider complex comprising a petrochemical plant and a
lubricant production plant. Raymond was quoted as saying in a
published interview that Exxon was reviewing its worldwide refinery
operations and might decide to close one of its French refineries.
Reuter 

OPEC DEFENDING 18 DLR PRICE, SUBROTO SAYS
    JAKARTA, March 13 - 
Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said OPEC is deliberately under its
production ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels to defend its 18 dlr a barrel
price target. He told reporters at an energy conference in Jakarta
that OPEC had decided to maintain its price level of 18 dlrs. "We are
deliberately defending the price, so OPEC production is less than 15.8
(mln) at the moment," he stated. Asked if OPEC would increase
production if prices went above 18 dlrs a barrel, he said this would
be decided at the next OPEC meeting in June. "We will discuss the
market situation then," he added. He said a meeting of the OPEC
Differentials Committee had been postponed because "there is no need
for the meeting." He did not elaborate. The committee had originally
been due to meet in Vienna this week. REUTER 

Opec deliberately under 15.8 mln barrel ceiling to defend price - Subroto




IRAQI OIL MINISTER REPLACED - OFFICIAL
    BAGHDAD, March 23 - 
Iraq's Oil Minister Qassem Ahmed Taqi has been moved to the Heavy
Industries ministry, the official Iraqi news agcny INA said tonight.
It quoted a Presidential decree appointing Oil Ministry undersecretary
Isam Abdul-Rahim Al-Chalaby as the new Oil Minister. The Ministers of
Industry and Communication and Transport had both been relieved of
their posts, the news agency said. No immediate explanation was given
for the changes. Al-Chalaby is the head of the Iraqi National Oil
Company. INA said the decree, signed by President Saddam Hussein,
relieved the Minister of Heavy Industries, Subhi Yassin Khadeir of his
post and appointed him a Presidential adviser. His ministry was
formerly known as the Industry and Mineral Resources Ministry. The
Minister of Communications and Transport, Abdel-Jabbar Abdel-Rahim al-
Asadi was also relieved of his post and replaced by a member of the
ruling Baath party regional command, Mohammed Hamza al-Zubeidi. Al-
Zubedei is also a Presidential adviser. All three ministers involved
in the reshuffle had spent more than four years in their posts. Reuter


MURPHY RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES ONE DLR/BBL. WTI TO 17.00 DLRS TODAY




REAGAN SAYS U.S. NEEDS TO LESSEN OIL IMPORTS
    WASHINGTON, March 20 - 
President Reagan said the United States must do more to lessen its
reliance on imported oil. President Reagan said during a nationally
televised news conference that the rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil
is a problem that the administration is studying. "We have to study
this more," Reagan said. "This is why we increased the Strategic
(Petroleum) Reserve, but we have to do more," he said. Reagan said his
administration has already proposed deregulating natural gas and
eliminating the windfall profits tax on crude oil production. However,
he complained that Congress had not yet approved those measures. The
Department of Energy earlier this week released a report that warned
of rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil imports at a time when domestic
production is declining. It suggested options for the administration
to consider, but made no specific recommendations. Reuter 

OPEC WANTS 18 DLR OIL PRICE - OAPEC OFFICIAL
    BRUSSELS, March 17 - 
OPEC believes world oil prices should be set around a fixed average
price of 18 dlrs a barrel, OAPEC Assistant General Secretary Abdelaziz
Al-Wattari said. In a speech to a European Community/OAPEC/OPEC
seminar in Luxembourg released here, Al-Wattari said, "OPEC believes
...the world energy trade should be kept without restrictions and
should be built around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs." Al-Wattari
noted that total OPEC output was below the organization's agreed
ceiling for all member countries in February, although this had meant
sacrifices. The effect of these sacrifices meant that market
stability, though restored to a good level, was still under pressure,
Al-Wattari said. "A lasting stability in the world market requires a
wider scope of international cooperation," he said. Reuter 

OIL ANALYST SEES PAPUA NEW GUINEA AS GOOD PROSPECT
    SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 25 - 
Papua New Guinea (PNG) provides the most exciting new prospect in the
Asia-Pacific region for oil production, energy analyst Fereidun
Fesharaki said here. The recent successful find at Iagifu is likely to
put PNG on the list of major oil exporters by the early 1990s, he told
the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association annual conference.
Fesharaki, leader of the Energy Program at the East-West Center in
Honolulu, Hawaii, was speaking on the Asia-Pacific petroleum outlook.
With domestic demand of around 12,000 barrels per day (bpd) and
prospects of production of over 100,000 bpd by late 1991, PNG would
become an Ecuador-level crude exporter, Fesharaki said. The Iagifu
wells in the Papuan Basin have recorded the best oil flows in more
than 60 years of exploration in PNG. The PNG government's Geological
Survey in a paper distributed at the conference estimates Iagifu
reserves at about 500 mln barrels. PNG enjoys the most liberal tax
regime in the region with no secondary taxes, Fesharaki said. "We
expect a much larger oil search in Papua New Guinea, and discovery of
much larger volumes of oil, similar in quality to (light) Bass Strait
crude," Fesharaki said. There are also large pockets of high quality
condensates to be produced, notably in the Juha field near Iagifu
which is capable of producing 30,000 to 40,000 bpd, he said. But
prices should be somewhat higher than the present levels to justify
development of the Juha field, he said. The PNG Geological Survey
paper noted there are five large prospective but little-explored
sedimentary basins in PNG. REUTER 

OPEC STICKING FIRM ON OFFICIAL PRICES - SUBROTO
    TOKYO, March 5 - 
OPEC countries are all sticking firmly to official crude oil prices
but the volatility of spot prices is likely to continue into the third
quarter, Indonesian Minister of Mines and Energy Subroto told Reuters.
Subroto, attending a Pacific Energy Cooperation conference, blamed
recent rapid spot price changes on unbalanced supply and demand. "If
we stick to the production limitation, the third quarter will be in
better balance." He said the market is in a period of transition while
the impact of OPEC's December agreement to cut output and fix prices
at an average 18 dlrs a barrel is worked through. Asked whether OPEC
members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) had any concrete
proposals to help Qatar sell its crude oil in the face of strong
resistance to its official prices, Subroto said: "Apparently they have
taken care of that." "They (the GCC) meet very often among themselves.
I think they'll help each other," he said. Subroto said that as he was
not a member of OPEC's Price Differentials Committee he did not know
why the meeting had been postponed from its scheduled April 2 date.
"Maybe they find it is better not to have the meeting because ...
Everyone is sticking to official prices," he said. REUTER 

STUDY GROUP URGES INCREASED U.S. OIL RESERVES
    WASHINGTON, March 2 - 
A study group said the United States should increase its strategic
petroleum reserve to one mln barrels as one way to deal with the
present and future impact of low oil prices on the domestic oil
industry. U.S. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750 mln
barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect the economy from an
overseas embargo or a sharp price rise. The Aspen Institute for
Humanistic Studies, a private group, also called for new research for
oil exploration and development techniques. It predicted prices would
remain at about 15-18 dlrs a barrel for several years and then rise to
the mid 20s, with imports at about 30 pct of U.S. consumption. It said
instead that such moves as increasing oil reserves and more
exploration and development research would help to guard against or
mitigate the risks of increased imports. Reuter 

REPORT DUE ON OIL IMPORTS AND NATIONAL SECURITY
    WASHINGTON, March 4 - 
A presidential commission that has been studying oil imports,
including their effect on national security, is to to make its report
soon, the White House said. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the panel,
set up last October to examine U.S. oil import needs, would make its
report soon, probably within the next few weeks. He said National
Security Adviser Frank Carlucci "will wait until that report is in and
then see if there is any special action needed to be taken in the
national security area to implement it." Reuter 

WORLD BANK LIKELY TO URGE CHANGES ON JAKARTA
    JAKARTA, March 22 - 
World Bank President Barber Conable is expected to press Indonesia,
the Third World's sixth largest debtor, to maintain the momentum of
economic policy changes to tackle the slump in its oil revenues,
western diplomats said. Conable, who flew to Indonesia yesterday from
Tokyo, will meet with President Suharto and senior economic ministers.
He said on arrival that the economy of South-East Asia's largest
nation was being managed well, but the slump in world oil prices
called for major policy adjustments. Today the World Bank chief will
visit Bank-funded projects in the eastern section of Java, Indonesia's
most populous island. He will see Suharto on Tuesday after a day of
detailed discussions with ministers tomorrow. Indonesia, the only
Asian member of OPEC, has been severely hit by last year's crash in
oil prices, which cut its oil and gas revenues in half. Japan's state
Export-Import Bank last month agreed to provide around 900 mln dlrs in
untied credits to help Indonesia pay for its share of 21 World Bank
development projects. Indonesia, a country of 168 mln people, has
responded to the oil slump by cutting spending, devaluing its currency
by 31 pct, and trying to boost exports, while using foreign loans to
bridge its deficit. Diplomats said that Conable was expected to press
Suharto and leading economic ministers to maintain the pace of policy
change, particularly in dismantling Indonesia's high-cost protected
economy. "Oil prices, the debt crisis, the world recession, all call
for major policy adjustments and external support," Conable said in
his arrival statement. But with Indonesia facing parliamentary
elections next month, he is likely to avoid anything which would imply
that the Bank is demanding specific changes. "We believe there has
been wise leadership here and the economy is being very well managed,"
Conable told reporters at Jakarta airport. Indonesia has official and
private overseas debts totalling 37 billion dlrs, according to the
Bank, which makes it the Third World's sixth biggest debtor. It has
received 10.7 billion dlrs from the World Bank since 1968. Conable did
not spell out what further changes he would like to see. Last month
the Bank endorsed economic changes already introduced by Indonesia,
but implied it wanted more. Giving a 300 mln dlr loan in balance of
payments support, the Bank said it will monitor progress on
implementation of the government's trade reform measures, and
supported its determination to promote efficiency and longer-term
growth. Indonesia has introduced a series of measures since last May
to boost non-oil exports, liberalise trade and encourage outside
investment. Suharto has also ordered a government committee to look
into which of Indonesia's 215 state-run companies could be sold. But
in a report last month, the U.S. Embassy said the government appeared
divided over how far to take its reforms. Western analysts say that in
particular the government is unsure how far to go with dismantling
Indonesia's high-cost monopolies, which control core areas of the
economy. Central bank governor Arifin Siregar said this week that
Indonesia faced very limited economic choices. It could not spend its
way out of trouble because this would increase the balance of payments
deficit and domestic inflation. He said the main objective was to
raise exports outside the oil and natural gas sector. Indonesia's
current account deficit is projected by the government to fall to 2.64
billion dlrs in the coming financial year which starts on April 1,
from an estimated 4.1 billion in 1986/87. REUTER 

U.S. OIL TAX BREAK PROPOSAL TO BE EXAMINED
    WASHINGTON, March 18 - 
The White House said a proposal for a tax break for the oil industry
would undergo review. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Reagan
had no position on recommendations submitted by Energy Secretary John
Herrington to encourage investment in the hard hit domestic oil
industry. But Fitzwater noted that Reagan did have a fundamental
objection to tax rises and special tax breaks. He said that even
though Herrington's recommendation did not agree with existing policy,
"We'll take a look at it." The review will be undertaken by the
president's Domestic Policy Council. Herrington's proposal was
reported by the Washington Post to have been made in a letter to
Reagan submitting a study that found the United States would be
importing half of its oil by the 1990s, threatening U.S. national
security. Reuter 

CANADIAN ROXY IN NEW ALBERTA OIL DISCOVERY
    CALGARY, Alberta, March 19 - 
<Canadian Roxy Petroleum Ltd> said a new oil discovery in the Peerless
Lake area of north-central Alberta is capable of flowing at over 1,000
barrels of oil a day from a lower zone and more than 1,500 barrels a
day from a separate upper zone. Canadian Roxy has a 35 pct interest in
the five-year royalty free well, known as the Canadian Roxy et Al
Trout A14-8-89-3 W5M. Texaco Canada Inc holds 25 pct, MLC Oil and Gas
Ltd 15 pct, Northstar Energy Corp 13.5 pct and Tricentrol Oils Ltd
11.5 pct. Canadian Roxy said drilling has started on a follow-up
exploratory well about one mile northwest of the discovery well. The
company said it holds a net 6,500 acres in the vicinity of the
discovery and a seismic program is underway to evaluate further
drilling opportunities. Reuter 

BP U.K. REFINERY DUE TO PARTLY RE-OPEN NEXT WEEK
    LONDON, March 30 - 
The British Petroleum Co PLC (BP.L) oil refinery at Grangemouth,
closed after an explosion and fire eight days ago, is expected to
partially reopen next week, a refinery spokesman said. He said the
entire 178,500 bpd refinery has been shut since the accident which
killed one person and damaged the site's hydrocracker. The main units
will resume operation next week but the hydrocracker will be closed
for an unspecified period. The spokesman said the refinery had been
operating at about half its capacity since end-January due to overhaul
work on part of the complex. The overhaul is expected to end by late
April. REUTER 

MOBIL <MOB> RAISES WEST COAST CRUDE POSTINGS
    New York, April 1 - 
Mobil Corp said it raised its west coast crude postings, effective
today. The Buena Vista light grade, at 26 degrees api gravity, was
raised 1.35 dlrs a barrel to 15.55 dlrs/bbl, while the Huntington
Beach light grade, at 16 degrees, was raised about 1.75 dlrs/bbl to
14.10 dlrs/bbl. The heavier Wilmington grade, at 17 degrees, was
increased 1.20 dlrs to 14.30 dlrs/bbl. Kern River crude, at 13
degrees, was increased 1.00 dlr to 13.00 dlrs/bbl. Mobil also said
that effective today it changed its gravity adjustment scale as
follows: From 20 degrees to 34 degrees API, Mobil will adjust its
price 0.015 of a ct per one-tenth of an API degree. Below 20 degrees
API, the company will adjust its price 0.020 ct per one-tenth of a
degree. Crude grades from 34 degrees API to above 40 degrees are
unaffected. Reuter 

CLOSURE OF BP SWEDEN REFINERY FORECAST
    STOCKHOLM, April 3 - 
A Swedish Finance Ministry committee forecast that British Petroleum
Plc <BP.L> may have to close its refinery in Gothenburg because of an
anticipated worsening of the Swedish petroleum industry's
competitiveness. It said in a report that the future of the Swedish
refining business was bleak due to the steady drop in domestic oil
consumption since the mid-1970s, a possible tightening of rules on
sulphur content and competition from Norway's Mongstad facility of
<Den Norske Stats Olieselskab> (Statoil) <STAT.OL> when its expansion
is completed in the 1990s. The committee said the BP refinery, which
lacks a de-sulphurisation plant, was likely to be closed or sold
unless costly investments were made to enhance the facility's capacity
to refine a broader range of products. But the committee noted that
capacity utilisation had in recent years been above that of the
European refining industry on average. The BP plant, in which Sweden's
state-owned <OK Petroleum AB> has a 22 pct, started up in 1967 and has
an annual capacity of 4.7 mln tonnes. There was nobody at British
Petroleum immediately available for comment. 

OPEC DEFENDING 18 DLR PRICE, SUBROTO SAYS
    JAKARTA, March 13 - 
Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said OPEC is deliberately under its
production ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels to defend its 18 dlr a barrel
price target. He told reporters at an energy conference in Jakarta
that OPEC had decided to maintain its price level of 18 dlrs. "We are
deliberately defending the price, so OPEC production is less than 15.8
(mln) at the moment," he stated. Asked if OPEC would increase
production if prices went above 18 dlrs a barrel, he said this would
be decided at the next OPEC meeting in June. "We will discuss the
market situation then," he added. He said a meeting of the OPEC
Differentials Committee had been postponed because "there is no need
for the meeting." He did not elaborate. The committee had originally
been due to meet in Vienna this week. REUTER 

BP SAYS NO PLANS TO CLOSE SWEDISH REFINERY
    LONDON, April 2 - 
The British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> said it had no plans to close its
refinery in Gothenburg, despite forecasts by a Swedish finance
ministry committee that it might be planning such a move. The
committee said the refinery's future looked bleak because the Swedish
petroleum industry's competitiveness was expected to worsen unless it
invested, and because of the effects of a possible tightening of rules
on sulphur content. But BP said the unit, in which Sweden's <OK
Petroleum AB> has a 22 pct stake, had performed well both technically
and financially up to and including the first quarter of 1987. Current
restrictions on sulphur emissions and known future plans for both
Sweden and export markets did not cause it any serious problems, it
said in a statement. The refinery started up in 1967 and has an annual
capacity of 4.7 mln tonnes. REUTER 

API SAYS U.S. CRUDE OIL OUPUT OFF FROM YEAR AGO
    WASHINGTON, March 19 - 
The American Petroleum Institute said that U.S. crude oil production
in February declined 9.8 pct from year-ago levels to about 8.3 mln
barrels a day. In its monthly report on U.S. oil supplies and stocks,
API said that domestic demand for petroleum products, as measured by
products supplied, continued to rise reaching 16.3 mln barrels a day
in the month, up 1.5 pct from February 1986. API noted the drop in
crude oil output coupled with a drop in natural gas liquids
production, which was off 11 pct from February 1986 levels,
represented a decline in U.S. production of more than one mln barrels
a day. API said the decline in domestic production and the rise in
demand brought petroleum imports to about six mln barrels a day in
February, a 30.3 pct increase from last year's level. So far this
year, API said growth in domestic demand, which was up 2.9 pct from
last year's year-to-date level, has slowed in comparison to the
accelerated growth in the last half of 1986. It said crude oil
production for the first two months of 1987 was off 8.6 pct from the
comparable year-ago period while crude imports were up 30.6 pct.
Reuter 

CHINA CLOSES SECOND ROUND OF OFFSHORE OIL BIDS
    PEKING, March 12 - 
China has closed the second round of bidding by foreign firms for
offshore oil exploration rights, the China Daily has reported. It
quoted a spokesman for the China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC) as
saying China signed eight contracts with 15 foreign firms for blocks
in the Pearl River mouth and south Yellow Sea covering a total area of
44,913 sq km. Second round bidding began at the end of 1984 and only
one well has so far produced results -- Lufeng 13-1-1, 250 km south-
east of Shenzhen, with an output of 6,770 barrels a day. The well was
drilled by a group of Japanese companies. The spokesman added CNOOC
was ready to enter into contracts for offshore blocks before third
round bidding began. He did not say when this would be, but added the
contracts would not be bound by restrictions imposed during the second
round. China has signed 36 oil contracts and agreements with 37
companies from 10 countries since 1979, when offshore exploration was
open to foreigners. Eleven contracts were terminated after no oil was
discovered. Foreign firms have invested 2.1 billion dlrs on offshore
China since 1979. REUTER 

SAUDI FEBRUARY CRUDE OUTPUT PUT AT 3.5 MLN BPD
    ABU DHABI, March 2 - 
Saudi crude oil output last month fell to an average of 3.5 mln
barrels per day (bpd) from 3.8 mln bpd in January, Gulf oil sources
said. They said exports from the Ras Tanurah and Ju'aymah terminals in
the Gulf fell to an average 1.9 mln bpd last month from 2.2 mln in
January because of lower liftings by some customers. But the drop was
much smaller than expected after Gulf exports rallied in the fourth
week of February to 2.5 mln bpd from 1.2 mln in the third week, the
sources said. The production figures include neutral zone output but
not sales from floating storage, which are generally considered part
of a country's output for Opec purposes. Saudi Arabia has an Opec
quota of 4.133 mln bpd under a production restraint scheme approved by
the 13-nation group last December to back new official oil prices
averaging 18 dlrs a barrel. The sources said the two-fold jump in
exports last week appeared to be the result of buyers rushing to lift
February entitlements before the month-end. Last week's high export
levels appeared to show continued support for official Opec prices
from Saudi Arabia's main crude customers, the four ex-partners of
Aramco, the sources said. The four -- Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp
<MOB>, Texaco Inc <TX> and Chevron Corp <CHV> -- signed a long-term
agreement last month to buy Saudi crude for 17.52 dlrs a barrel.
However the sources said the real test of Saudi Arabia's ability to
sell crude at official prices in a weak market will come this month,
when demand for petroleum products traditionally tapers off. Spot
prices have fallen in recent weeks to more than one dlr below Opec
levels. Saudi Arabian oil minister Hisham Nazer yesterday reiterated
the kingdom's commitment to the December OPEC accord and said it would
never sell below official prices. The sources said total Saudi
refinery throughput fell slightly in February to an average 1.1 mln
bpd from 1.2 mln in January because of cuts at the Yanbu and Jubail
export refineries. They put crude oil exports through Yanbu at 100,000
bpd last month, compared to zero in January, while throughput at
Bahrain's refinery and neutral zone production remained steady at
around 200,000 bpd each. REUTER 

U.S. OFFICIALS DEFEND OIL RESERVE SALE PLAN
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker and Office of Management and Budget
chief James Miller defended an administration plan to sell the U.S.
Naval Petroleum Reserves. In response to hostile questioning from a
member of the House Appropriations Committee, the officials said the
plan was justified to help bring the fiscal 1988 budget deficit and to
get the government out of the oil business. Miller acknowleged the
estimated sale proceeds at 3.3 billion dlrs would actually bring down
the deficit by about 2.2 billion dlrs because of the loss of revenues
from the sale of oil from the reserves. Miller said the sale price may
end up higher. "We'd sell it to the highest bidder," Miller said. "If
we can get more we'll take it." Reuter 

CONFIDENCE IN OPEC FIRMS U.S. ENERGY FUTURES
    NEW YORK, March 5 - 
Renewed confidence in OPEC's ability to limit production helped U.S.
energy futures settle above yesterday's closing prices, according to
analysts. They also said the heating oil contract found additional
support from a short-covering rally on the close. April crude closed
24 cts higher to 17.75 dlrs. April heating oil was 1.47 cts higher to
47.91 cts a gallon. "Most traders expected follow through profit-
taking from yesterday but the market found suport from bullish reports
that OPEC is producing within its quota," said Simon Greenshields, a
vice president with Morgan Stanley and Co Inc. News today, including
OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman statement that OPEC February production
did not exceed its official quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day, helped
bouy prices, traders said. A Reuter survey found OPEC production in
early March was 14.7 mln bpd. In addition to short-covering, heating
oil found support from traders buying it against sales of gasoline and
crude, as well as from expectations for continued drawdowns in stocks
as refiners shut down for maintenance, traders said. Unleaded gasoline
for April finished 0.55 cent higher to 51.24 cts a gallon. Reuter 

OIL FIRMS CUT 1987 INDONESIAN EXPLORATION SPENDING
    JAKARTA, March 11 - 
Foreign oil companies will spend less on exploration in Indonesia this
year than last, budgeting 2.7 billion dlrs for calendar 1987 against
1986 spending of 2.8 billion dlrs, the state oil company Pertamina
said. Actual spending last year fell short of the budgeted figure of
3.2 billion dlrs, as oil companies slashed expenditure because of the
crash in world oil prices. Jumardi Jukardi, head of Pertamina's
coordinating board for foreign contractors, said foreign companies
will drill 110 exploration wells and 431 development wells this year,
against 108 and 330 last year. REUTER 

TRITON ENERGY <OIL> AFFILIATE IN CANADIAN FIND
    DALLAS, March 11 - 
Triton Energy Corp said its 70 pct owned <Canadian Worldwide Energy
Ltd> affiliate's Lasmo et al Tableland 4-36-2-10W2 well in
Saskatchewan flowed 567 barrels of 37 degree gravity oil through a
17/64 inch choke from depths of 8,531 to 8,548 feet and 636 barrels of
oil per day through a 20/64 inch choke from depths of 8,500 to 8,507
feet. Triton said because of the well's status as a deep exploratory
well, production qualifies for a five-year royalty holiday under the
Saskatchewan drilling incentive products. It said the well's initial
production is expected to be restricted to an allowable level of about
300 barrels a day, although it is capable of sustaining much higher
rates. The company said London and Scottish Marine Oil PLC owns a 50
pct interest in the well and its spacing unit, Canadian Worldwide 25
pct, <Saskatchewan Oil and Gas Corp> 10 pct, <Interprovincial Pipeline
Ltd's> Home Oil Co Ltd 7.5 pct and Scurry-Rainbow Oil Ltd <SRB> 7.5
pct. Triton said Royal Dutch/Shell Group's <RD> <SC> Shell Canada Ltd
<SHC> affiliate retains a convertible overriding interest in the well.
Reuter 

ECUADOR NEGOTIATES WITH NIGERIA FOR LENDING OIL
    QUITO, March 25 - 
Earthquake-stricken Ecuador is negotiating with Nigeria to have the
African country lend it 10,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude for
export, Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite told Reuters. He
said Ecuador was negotiating a shipments schedule and the terms of
repaying the loan. Ecuador has suspended crude exports for about five
months until it repairs a pipeline ruputured by a March five tremor.
Santos Alvite added Ecuador is finalizing details for a program under
which Venezuela would temporarily lend the country 50,000 bpd for
export. Reuter 

MOBIL PLAN TO OPEN PEKING OFFICE, CHINA DAILY SAYS
    PEKING, March 3 - 
Mobil Corp <MOB.N> of the U.S. Plans to open an office in Peking to
develop oil exploration opportunities in China, the China Daily said.
It quoted Mobil president Richard Tucker, currently in Peking, as
saying he is optimistic about investment prospects in China and that
Peking will continue to encourage foreign private businesses to invest
here. It said Mobil bought 73 mln dlrs of crude oil and oil products
from China in 1986 and sold it lubricant and fertiliser, but gave no
more details. REUTER 

TREASURY'S BAKER SEES REAGAN OPPOSING OIL TAX
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
Treasury Secretary James Baker told the House Appropriations Committee
that he believes the president remains opposed to an oil import fee.
He said Reagan last year rejected the idea and he added: "In my
personal view he is not likely to change his thinking on that." He
said Reagan last year opposed the idea because the energy industry was
divided on the issue, a tax would require a new bureacracy to
administer and the resulting higher energy prices would harm U.S.
competitiveness. Reuter 

NEXT FEW MONTHS CRUCIAL FOR OIL - HERNANDEZ
     CARACAS, March 26 - 
Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti today told a
meeting of regional oil exporters the next few months will be critical
to efforts to achieve price recovery and stabilize the market.
Hernandez said while OPEC and non-OPEC nations have already made some
strides in their efforts to strengthen the market, the danger of a
reversal is always present. "March and the next two or three months
will be a really critical period," Hernandez said. He said, "We will
be able to define a movement, either towards market stability and
price recovery or, depending on the market, a reversal." Earlier this
week, Hernandez said Venezuela's oil price has averaged just above 16
dlrs a barrel for the year to date. If OPEC achieves its stated goal
of an 18 dlrs a barrel average price, he said, Venezuela's should move
up to 16.50 dlrs. Hernandez spoke today at the opening of the fifth
ministerial meeting of the informal group of Latin American and
Caribbean oil exporters, formed in 1983. Ministers from member states
Ecuador, Mexico, Trinidad-Tobago and Venezuela are attending the two
day conference, while Colombia is present for the first time as an
observer. Hernandez defined the meeting as an informal exchange of
ideas about the oil market. However, the members will also discuss
ways to combat proposals for a tax on imported oil currently before
the U.S. Congress. Following the opening session, the group of
ministers met with President Jaime Lusinchi at Miraflores, the
presidential palace. The delegations to the conference are headed by
Hernandez of Venezuela, Energy Minister Javier Espinosa of Ecuador,
Energy Minister Kelvin Ramnath of Trinidad-Tobago, Jose Luis Alcudiai,
assistant energy secretary of Mexico and Energy Minister Guilermno
Perry Rubio of Colombia. Reuter 

API SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK
    WASHINGTON, March 3 - 
Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 4.4 mln barrels
in the week ended Feb 27 to 127.10 mln barrels from 131.50 mln the
previous week, the American Petroleum Institute (API) said. In its
weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade group said
gasoline stocks fell 30,000 barrels to 252.92 mln barrels from a
revised 252.95 mln, while crude oil stocks rose 700,000 barrels to
329.38 mln from a revised 328.68 mln. It said residual fuel stocks
fell 380,000 barrels to 38.04 mln from 38.42 mln barrels. API said
refinery runs in the week fell to 12.17 mln barrels per day from a
revised 12.42 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was 78.1 pct,
off from a revised 79.7 pct. Crude oil imports in the week fell to
3.98 mln bpd from a revised 4.22 mln, API added. Reuter 

CHEVRON <CHV>, NIPPON OIL FORM JOINT VENTURE
    SAN FRANCISCO, March 31 - 
Chevron Corp said its Chevron U.S.A. Inc unit and Tokyo-based Nippon
Oil Co Ltd agreed to conduct a joint-venture oil exploration and
development program on selected Chevron leaseholds in the United
States. About 50 onshore and offshore exploratory wells will be
drilled under the agreement and Chevron will be the operator of the
project and pay some costs, the company said. It said Nippon will
contribute an initial investment of more than 100 mln dlrs. The
Japanese government will also participate in the venture by providing
financing to Nippon through the Japanese Oil Corp, Chevron said. It
said drilling will begin during the second quarter. Properties to be
evaluated are located in California, Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma,
Mississippi, Montana, North Dakota, Texas, Utah, and Wyoming, along
with Federal Outer Continental Shelf leases offshore Southern
California and in the Gulf of Mexico, Chevron said. Reuter 

CANADA SETS OIL INDUSTRY AID PACKAGE
    EDMONTON, Alberta, March 25 - 
Canada's federal government will provide a 350 mln dlr oil industry
aid package that includes cash incentives designed to cover one-third
of a company's oil and gas exploration and development costs, Energy
Minister Marcel Masse announced. The aid program will inject about 350
mln dlrs a year into the oil and gas industry and could lead to more
than one billion dlrs in new investment, Masse told a news conference.
The program will affect drilling done anywhere in Canada on or after
April 1, 1987. Masse told reporters that the government's oil industry
aid package is aimed at small and medium sized companies. The aid
package, called the Canadian Exploration and Development Incentive
Program, will restrict the total payments that any individual company
can claim to 10 mln dlrs a year. Masse said the program will probably
generate new employment equivalent to 20,000 people working for a
year. He said oil industry aid is needed because exploration and
development spending dropped by at least 50 pct since world oil prices
fell during the first half of 1986. Energy Minister Masse said the
federal government decided to provide cash incentives so a large
number of non-tax paying companies, mainly small Canadian firms, will
receive the full value of the incentive. Such companies would not
immediately benefit from tax benefits, he said. The federal government
also wanted to deliver an aid program outside the tax system. Finance
Minister Michael Wilson is now reviewing Canada's tax system and plans
to announce tax reform proposals later this spring. An important
feature of the aid program is a decision to let companies issue flow-
through shares, allowing investors to benefit from the subsidy rather
than restricting benefits to only participating companies, he said.
Allowing flow-through shares under the program will make it easier for
companies to attract investors in exploration and development, Masse
said. He told reporters his department is still considering whether to
allow partnerships and other entities to qualify for the subsidy.
Reuter 

AUSTRALIAN MINISTER SEES TARGETED OIL TAX STRATEGY
    SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 24 - 
Australia's crude oil tax strategy is probably best tackled in terms
of a targeted rather than broadly-based approach, Federal Resources
and Energy Minister Gareth Evans told a meeting here. He told the
Australian Petroleum Exploration Association (APEA) annual conference
there was a prospect of developing a package that would recognise the
government's economic priorities while also meeting some of the
industry's concerns. Evans was referring to a nearly completed
government review of oil taxation. Evans said there were plenty of
examples where targeted approaches to oil industry taxation had
produced good results in recent years. These include the reduction in
the top marginal crude excise rate on 'old' Bass Strait oil found
before September 1975 to 80 pct from 87 pct, and the waiver of excise
on onshore oil announced last September, he said. The industry,
through the APEA, has been calling for the elimination of secondary
taxation on oil in order to boost incentives for prospecting against a
background of weak prices and Australia's relatively low exploration
levels. "While nobody wants to add further unnecessary complexity to
an already complex taxation regime, I am inclined to favour these
kinds of tailored approaches ahead of sweeping changes, which leave
(government) revenue much reduced and may still leave a lot of
uncertainty as to what individual companies are going to do in major
areas," Evans said. He said the government did not intend to change
its resource rent taxation (RRT) legislation, now before parliament,
in response to industry calls to allow all exploration expenditure in
a given area to be deductible. As previously reported, RRT is a tax of
40 pct limited to highly prospective offshore areas, based on profits
after a certain rate of return has been achieved for individual
projects. APEA has said it is not a true profit-based tax because
exploration deductibility is limited to successful projects. Evans
said the decision not to change RRT was based more than anything on
the government's desire to ensure the certainty and stability of the
new regime, adding that major investments have already been planned on
the existing ground rules. REUTER 

DOE SECRETARY FAVORS HIGHER SPR FILL RATE
    WASHINGTON, March 18 - 
Energy Secretary John Herrington said he believes the Reagan
Administration will review its decision to cut the fill rate of the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve because of a department report issued
yesterday warning of growing U.S. dependence on oil imports. "As part
of this study, I think the Administration will take the fill rate
under review," Herrington said at a House Energy subcommittee hearing.
The Administration has proposed cutting the fill rate from 75,000
barrels of oil per day to 35,000 bpd in fiscal year 1988 to save
money. "My personal feeling is that is too low. I favor the maximum
fill rate (of 100,000 bpd)," Herrington said. Reuter 

UK CROSS FIELD PRT RELIEF FAVOURS SMALLER FIELDS
    LONDON, March 19 - 
The "cross field allowance" relief on Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT)
announced by U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson this week
will favour smaller non-PRT paying fields, according to stockbrokers
Wood Mackenzie and Co. The cross field allowance offsets up to 10 pct
of qualifying spending on a new oil field against PRT liability of
other fields. It is restricted to new offshore developments outside
the southern basin and yet to gain Annex B approval. A report by the
stockbrokers said that on a new field not paying PRT due to its small
size, the relief would directly benefit in PRT saving on an existing
field. "The cross field allowance will mainly benefit participators in
those fields which have no PRT liability," the report said, adding
that the timing of development of such fields may be advanced. The
government would in effect be subsidising these developments at 7.5
pct of capital expenditure before corporation tax, the report said. On
fields likely to pay PRT in the future, the benefit is of timing.
Although liabilities on other existing fields will be reduced
immediately, liabilities on larger new fields will rise in the future
due to the loss of offsets, it said. In a study on probable fields,
the report said that when the rates of return are examined, the rise
for a PRT-paying field such as Miller, the largest undeveloped oil
field in the U.K. North Sea, is from 18.7 to 19 pct, while the rise
for a small non-PRT paying field such as Kittiwake is 15.9 to 17.9
pct. The report added that in fields which pay PRT, there will be a
cost in being able to have this early relief. Not only will these
costs be unavailable for offset against the field's future profits,
but uplift of some 35 pct on these costs will be lost. Thus, a saving
of PRT of 100 when field development starts will have to be matched by
a rise in PRT of 135 at a later time. Reuter 

BRAZIL MAKES SECOND AMAZON OIL DISCOVERY
    BRASILIA, April 3 - 
The Brazilian state oil company Petrobras has made a second oil
discovery in the Amazon region, President Jose Sarney said. He said
the well had an initial flow of 150,000 cubic meters of gas and 220
barrels of oil per day. It is situated 14 kilometres from the first
well to be discovered in the region last year, which is currently
yielding 500,000 cubic meters of gas and 900 barrels of oil daily. The
wells, the biggest onshore well in the country, are on the banks of
the river Uruc in the Amazon basin 3,600 kilometres (2,250 miles)
north of Brasilia. Reuter 

PHILLIPS <P> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS
    New York, March 12 - 
Phillips Petroleum said it raised the contract price it will for all
grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The increase
brings Phillip's posted price for the West Texas Intermediate and West
Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a bbl. Phillips last changed its crude
oil postings on March 4. The price increase follows similar moves by
USX's <X> subsidiary, Marathon oil, and Sun Co <SUN> earlier today.
Reuter 

MONTEDISON, OTHER REFINERIES TO SHUT FOR WORK
    LONDON, March 12 - 
Selm-Societa Energia Montedison is to close its Priolo crude refining
units from March 15th to March 28th for maintenance, a company
spokesman said. Throughput at the refinery is currently estimated at
140-150,000 bpd, although total capacity is nearer 200,000 bpd.
Several other Mediterranean refineries are currently shutdown for
maintenance, most of which were scheduled some months ago. But
industry sources said that shutdowns may have been rearranged to avoid
running negative-netback crude. Tighter availabilities of products as
a result of the shutdowns in the Med is helping to keep products
markets bullish, particularly for March deliveries, oil traders said.
Garrone's refinery at San Quirico (capacity 130,000 bpd) is due to
shutdown on March 14th for three weeks, and the jointly-owned
ISAB/Garrone refinery at Mellili, capacity 220,000 bpd, is due to
start up around March 20-25th following its closure for maintenance a
month ago, a company spokesman said. The Esso Italiana refineries at
Augusta and Siracusa will not be closing this spring, a spokesman for
the company said. In France, the distillation unit at Societe
Francaise de BP's Lavera refinery has been closed for maintenance
since March 2, and is due to restart early April. Total capacity is
181,900 bpd. It is currently operating at around 50 pct capacity, a
company spokesman said. Shell Francaise's Berre l'Etang refinery will
shut down in early April until mid-June, a company spokesman said.
Capacity is around 150,000 bpd. Compagnie Francaise de Raffinage (CFR)
will close the visbreaker at its La Mede refinery in early April, but
would not affect crude throughput at the refinery, a company spokesman
said. Current capacity is 136,000 bbl/day. Despite current bullish
sentiment in the Med, however, traders noted that crude netbacks are
beginning to look more attractive, and most maintenance shutdowns
should be finished in two to three weeks. As a result, oil industry
sources suggest that the situation may ease by mid-April. Reuter 

PANCANADIAN TO SELL BRITISH INTERESTS
    CALGARY, Alberta, March 3 - 
<PanCanadian Petroleum Ltd> said it agreed to sell its working
interest in its North Sea properties and its British unit, Canadian
Pacific Oil and Gas of Canada Ltd, to Whitehall Petroleum Ltd, a
private British company. PanCanadian, 87 pct-owned by Canadian Pacific
Ltd <CP>, said it would receive 1.7 mln British pounds cash (3.5 mln
Canadian dlrs) at closing, expected in two to three months. It said
the deal is subject to approval by regulators and its partners in the
properties, which consist of exploration wells. It will also retain a
royalty interest in the properties. Reuter 

IRANIAN OIL MINISTER IN UAE TALKS
    ABU DHABI, March 11 - 
Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh is in the United Arab
Emirates (UAE) to discuss oil prices and the general market situation,
Iranian officials accompanying him said. He will meet UAE President
Sheikh Zaid bin Sultan al-Nahayan and Oil Minister Mana Said al-
Oteiba. Aqazadeh arrived last night after a brief stopover in Riyadh,
where he met Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Hisham Nazir. The official
Saudi Press Agency quoted him as saying his talks at Riyadh with Nazir
had been constructive and good. Aqazadeh said Organisation of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) members were agreed on holding
production stable and he reiterated the importance of maintaining oil
prices. OPEC members agreed in December to limit production to 15.8
mln barrels per day for the first half of this year and on a benchmark
price of 18 dlrs a barrel from February 1. Aqazadeh also visted OPEC
members Gabon, Algeria and Libya. The Iranian news agency, IRNA,
quoted him as saying before leaving Tripoli that OPEC should do
everything possible to make oil prices permanently stable. REUTER 

KUWAIT SAYS OPEC 2.4 MLN BPD BELOW CEILING
    KUWAIT, March 24 - 
Kuwaiti oil minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah said OPEC was
producing well below its oil output ceiling and this would help prices
move higher, according to a Kuwaiti newspaper interview. The al-Rai
al-Aam newspaper quoted him as saying OPEC was pumping 2.4 mln barrels
per day (bpd) less than its 15.8 mln bpd ceiling, while consumers were
drawing down their petroleum stocks at a rate of 4.5 mln bpd. As long
as OPEC maintains its output curbs, demand for its oil will rise in
April and May, Sheikh Ali said, adding that Kuwait was strongly
committed to its OPEC quota. REUTER 

OPEC WANTS 18 DLR OIL PRICE - OAPEC OFFICIAL
    BRUSSELS, March 17 - 
OPEC believes world oil prices should be set around a fixed average
price of 18 dlrs a barrel, OAPEC Assistant General Secretary Abdelaziz
Al-Wattari said today. In a speech to a European Community
(EC)/OAPEC/OPEC seminar in Luxembourg released here, Al-Wattari said:
"OPEC believes ...The world energy trade should be kept without
restrictions and should be built around a fixed average price of 18
dlrs." But he warned that defense of the 18 dlr a barrel level had
caused hardship for OPEC countries, who had been forced to curtail
production, and he warned that such cutbacks by OPEC states could not
be sustained in some cases. "For OPEC to stabilize the world oil price
at what is now considered the optimal level of 18 dlrs a barrel, its
member countries have had to undergo severe hardship in curtailing
production," Al-Wattari said. "Such cutbacks ... Cannot, in certain
cases, be sustained," Al-Wattari said. As well as financial and
marketing pressures, some states depended on associated gas output for
domestic use and oil cutbacks had left insufficient gas supplies, he
added. Al-Wattari noted that total OPEC output was below the
organization's agreed ceiling for all member countries in February,
although this had meant sacrifices. The effect of these sacrifices
meant that market stability, though restored to a good level, was
still under pressure, Al-Wattari said. "A lasting stability in the
world market requires a wider scope of international cooperation," he
added. He said some non-OPEC oil producing countries had shown a
political willingness after 1986 to cooperate with OPEC. But although
cutbacks announced by these states were politically significant and
welcomed by OPEC, they were insufficient in terms of volume, he added.
"The overall majority of non-OPEC producers have not responded
sufficiently to OPEC's calls for supply regulation," he said. Al-
Wattari said an 18 dlr a barrel price was optimal as it allowed
investment in the oil industry outside OPEC to continue, while not
generating excessive cash flow for otherwise unviable high-cost areas
outside OPEC. Such a price would no longer encourage protectionist
measures, he added. Fadhil Al-Chalabi, OPEC Deputy Secretary General,
also addressing the seminar, added that discipline was still needed to
prevent violent fluctuations in the oil market. Cooperation between
Arab states and Europe was advantageous for both sides, Al-Chalabi
said, adding he hoped cooperation would ultimately lead to full-
fledged Euro-Arab dialogue. Reuter 

STUDY PREDICTS U.S. DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL
    NEW YORK, March 17 - 
A government study has concluded the U.S. Will be dependent on oil
from the middle east into the next century and must take steps to
reduce its vulnerability, the New York Times said. The newspaper said
the inter-agency government study found a serious oil-dependency
problem due to steadily falling domestic production and rising demand
for imported oil. The study concluded that by 1995 the U.S. Will be
relying on foreign countries for 50 pct of its oil, more than the peak
of 48 pct reached in 1977 and far above the 33 pct rate during the
1973-74 Arab oil embargo. The U.S. Now imports about 38 pct of its oil
needs, up from 27 pct a year ago, the New York Times said. It said
recommendations sent to the White House by Energy Secretary John
Harrington include financial incentives to raise domestic oil
production by one mln barrels a day from the current 8.4 mln barrels.
The newspaper said the administration has placed increased emphasis on
stockpiling oil reserves. It said the view now held is that the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve to be tapped in times of shortages, should
be increased by 100,000 barrels a day, rather than 35,000 as called
for in the 1988 budget. The newspaper said Harrington may propose
restoring the depletion allowance to major producers. "The
administration also plans to renew its efforts to ...Repeal the
windfall profits tax, remove bars to drilling on the outer continental
shelf and repeal the law that limits the use of natural gas in
industrial and utility boilers," it added. The New York Times quoted
Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma as saying the study greatly
underestimated potential U.S. Demand for imported oil in the next
decade and overestimated the amount of domestic oil which would be
produced. REUTER 

SHELL CANADA SCHEDULES ANNUAL REFINERY SHUTDOWN
    CALGARY, Alberta, March 30 - 
Shell Canada Ltd, 72 pct owned by Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <ST>,
scheduled its annual maintenance refinery shutdowns during the next
two months, company spokeswoman Judy Wish said. Wish said refineries
will stockpile production before the shutdowns to maintain normal
supply while maintenance is carried out. Production at Shell's major
refinery at Strathcona Alberta, will be closed for about one month,
Wish said. There will be no layoffs associated with the refinery
maintenance, she added. Reuter 

ECUADOR SAYS SUSPENDS OIL EXPORTS DUE EARTHQUAKE
    QUITO, March 6 - 
Ecuador today suspended its crude oil exports indefinitely due to an
earthquake last night that damaged pumping and crude transport
installations, an Energy and Mines MInistry statement said. It said
the state oil firm Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuatoriana (CEPE)
notified foreign customers that it was declaring force majeure on its
crude exports due to the tremor. Ecuador"s OPEC oil output quota is
210,000 barrels per day (bpd). A senior energy ministry official said
that one pumping station at El Salado on Ecuador's main pipeline was
damaged. He also said an 180 metre section of the pipeline attached to
the bridge over the Aguarico river collapsed. The pumping station was
about 20 km from the Reventador volcano, near the epicentre of the
quake, which Ecuadorean seismologists said registered six on the
12-point international Mercalli scale. The Aguarico bridge was also
close to the volcano, he said. The quake struck northern Ecaudor and
southern Colombia, according to Ecuadorean officials. No injuries were
reported. REUTER 

IEA SEES ONE PCT GROWTH IN 1987 OECD OIL DEMAND
    PARIS, April 5 - 
Growth in oil consumption in the Western industrialised countries is
likely to slow to around one pct this year compared with 2.3 pct in
1986, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said. Oil use in the 24
countries of the OECD increased by around one pct in first quarter
1987 to 35.9 mln bpd, the IEA said in its Monthly Oil Market Report.
Growth in OECD countries is expected to come primarily from transport
fuels, as in 1986. But if average consumer prices are higher than
1986, the rate of growth for these fuels may be below last year's 3.6
pct, it said. The IEA said that assuming crude oil and product prices
stay close to current levels, some destocking by end-users can be
expected. If that happens, natural gas will also regain some of the
market share it lost to heavy fuel in 1986, and there may be slightly
less growth in transport fuels. IEA estimates on April 1 put oil
stocks in the OECD area at 428 mln tonnes, representing 98 days of
forward consumption. This is about the same level as at the begining
of the year. The agency said this flat trend is explained by the
projected seasonal consumption decline in the second quarter of the
year which offset a reduction in stocks. It said initial estimates
indicate that company stocks fell by 1.2 mln bpd in OECD countries in
the first quarter of the year. This followed a small rise in January
of 0.4 mln bpd but a decline of 1.5 mln bpd in February and 2.5 mln
bpd in March. It is possible that final data will show a larger draw,
particulary for March, it said. As crude production also fell, there
is likely to have also been a decline in non-reported stocks,
particularly at sea, the IEA said. Company stocks on land in the OECD
rose to 326 mln tonnes on April 1 against 316 mln on April 1 1986.
Governments built up strategic stocks to 102 mln tonnes against 97 mln
in the period. The year-on-year trend of government stock building is
continuing with year-on-year company stocks also rising, more or less
in line with consumption, after declining for five years, the IEA
noted. Oil stocks on land in the U.S. And Canada were put at 206.6 mln
tonnes on April 1, down from the 214 mln tonnes on January 1 and
equivalent to 94 and 98 days of consumption, respectively. Oil stocks
in Western Europe were 147.4 mln tonnes on April 1, down from the 154
mln on January 1 but still equivalent to 94 days of consumption. World
oil supply fell in the first quarter by about two mln bpd to 45.2 mln
bpd from 47.2 mln bpd in last quarter 1986. This drop was mostly due
to a decline in OPEC crude production to around 15.5 mln bpd in
February/March from 16.5 mln bpd in January and to the seasonal drop
in exports from centrally-planned Economies, the IEA said. Total OPEC
crude oil supply was 15.8 mln bpd in the first quarter, plus 1.4 mln
bpd of NGLs, compared with 17.3 mln bpd of crude in the last three
months of 1986 and 17.9 mln average for the whole of 1986. Supply from
non-OPEC countries totalled 28 mln bpd, against 28.5 mln bpd in the
fourth quarter 1986. A drop in Saudi Arabian output to a tentatively
forecast 3.3 mln bpd in March from 3.6 mln bpd in February was the
largest factor behind the OPEC production decline, the IEA said. Saudi
Arabia"s Opec-assigned output quota is 4.133 mln bpd. REUTER 

HERRINGTON SAYS HE MAY CALL FOR OIL TAX BENEFITS
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
Energy Secretary John Herrington said he may recommend to the White
House that the domestic oil industry be given tax benefits to help it
produce more oil and head off increasing U.S. dependence on foreign
oil. He said also at a news conference that he would recommend to the
White House that the fill rate of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve be
increased from its planned 35,000 barrels per day. The oil reserve
fill rate capacity is 100,000 barrels a day. Herrington said he had
always advocated a greater fill rate for the petroleum reserve, but
the rate had been kept down because of budgetary constraints.
Herrington did not disclose what tax incentives he might advocate, but
U.S. officials have shown interest in tax benefits for oil and gas
exploration and for research and development into new ways to extract
oil which is now considered uneconomical to produce. He made the
remarks in conjunction with the release of the Energy Department's
study on oil's impact on national security. Herrington said that
before he disclosed what recommendations for tax benefits for the oil
and gas industry he might make, he would raise the matter with the
White House Economic Policy Committee to see if the proposals to
increase oil production made good tax policy. He said he would like to
increase U.S. production by one mln barrels a day. The report said
that by the end of the century the United States may be relying on
foreign sources for 50 pct of its oil consumption, posing a serious
economic and national security threat. Reuter 

INDONESIA SEEN AT CROSSROADS OVER ECONOMIC CHANGE
    JAKARTA, March 1 - 
Indonesia appears to be nearing a political crossroads over measures
to deregulate its protected economy, the U.S. Embassy says in a new
report. To counter falling oil revenues, the government has launched a
series of measures over the past nine months to boost exports outside
the oil sector and attract new investment. Indonesia, the only Asian
member of OPEC and a leading primary commodity producer, has been
severely hit by last year"s fall in world oil prices, which forced it
to devalue its currency by 31 pct in September. But the U.S. Embassy
report says President Suharto"s government appears to be divided over
what direction to lead the economy. "(It) appears to be nearing a
crossroads with regard to deregulation, both as it pertains to
investments and imports," the report says. It primarily assesses
Indonesia"s agricultural sector, but also reviews the country"s
general economic performance. It says that while many government
officials and advisers are recommending further relaxation, "there are
equally strong pressures being exerted to halt all such moves." "This
group strongly favours an import substitution economy," the report
says. Indonesia"s economic changes have been welcomed by the World
Bank and international bankers as steps in the right direction, though
they say crucial areas of the economy like plastics and steel remain
highly protected, and virtual monopolies. Three sets of measures have
been announced since last May, which broadened areas for foreign
investment, reduced trade restrictions and liberalised imports. The
report says Indonesia"s economic growth in calendar 1986 was probably
about zero, and the economy may even have contracted a bit. "This is
the lowest rate of growth since the mid-1960s," the report notes.
Indonesia, the largest country in South-East Asia with a population of
168 million, is facing general elections in April. But the report hold
out little hope for swift improvement in the economic outlook. "For
1987 early indications point to a slightly positive growth rate not
exceeding one pct. Economic activity continues to suffer due to the
sharp fall in export earnings from the petroleum industry." "Growth in
the non-oil sector is low because of weak domestic demand coupled with
excessive plant capacity, real declines in construction and trade, and
a reduced level of growth in agriculture," the report states. Bankers
say continuation of present economic reforms is crucial for the
government to get the international lending its needs. A new World
Bank loan of 300 mln dlrs last month in balance of payments support
was given partly to help the government maintain the momentum of
reform, the Bank said. REUTER 

INDONESIA LIMITS OIL PRICE IMPACT-FINANCE MINISTER
    JAKARTA, March 30 - 
Indonesia has minimised the economic impact of falling oil prices,
kept inflation within limits and boosted exports, Finance Minister
Radius Prawiro said. Indonesia was badly hit by last year's steep
plunge in crude prices, which cut revenue from oil exports by half.
But Prawiro was quoted by Indonesian newspapers as telling President
Suharto that inflation was kept to around nine pct in the financial
year ending tomorrow, against around 4.3 pct the previous year.
Exports were estimated to have risen by seven pct, he said, although
he did not give complete figures. The depressed economy forms the main
backdrop to general elections next month in Indonesia, a major
producer of rubber, palm oil, tin, timber and coffee. Prawiro said
1986/87 had also been difficult because of the appreciation of
currencies like the yen and the mark against the dollar, which
increased Indonesia's debt repayments. He said the economy would have
suffered more from the world economic recession if the government had
not devalued the rupiah by 31 pct last September. In an editorial on
the economic outlook, the Jakarta Post said the government must press
ahead with measures to deregulate the economy to help boost non-oil
exports. The English-language daily said bigger export earnings were
needed to finance not only imports but also the country's growing
foreign debt, estimated at around 37 billion dlrs. "About 50 pct of
our foreign debt obligations fall due within the next three to five
years and will steadily increase the debt servicing burden," the paper
said. However, end-investors were seen bargain hunting in expectation
of a further yen interest rate decline, dealers said. Most dealers
were cautious in the face of the dollar's nosedive today and the
possibility of a U.S. Interest rate rebound to halt further dollar
depreciation. A 4.7 pct coupon and volume of 1,400 billion yen for the
April 10-year bond proposed by the Finance Ministry this afternoon
were taken favourably by the market. REUTER 

UNOCAL <UCL> UNIT CUTS CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES
    LOS ANGELES, March 2 - 
Unocal Corp's Union Oil Co said it lowered its posted prices for crude
oil one to 1.50 dlrs a barrel in the eastern region of the U.S.,
effective Feb 26. Union said a 1.50 dlrs cut brings its posted price
for the U.S. benchmark grade, West Texas Intermediate, to 16 dlrs.
Louisiana Sweet also was lowered 1.50 dlrs to 16.35 dlrs, the company
said. No changes were made in Union's posted prices for West Coast
grades of crude oil, the company said. Reuter 

EXPLOSION AT BP OIL REFINERY IN SCOTLAND
    GRANGEMOUTH, Scotland, March 22 - 
An explosion followed by a fire ripped through a British Petroleum
(BP) oil refinery, killing one man. A BP spokesman said the fire was
confined to one plant at the 700-acre refinery at Grangemouth, 25
miles west of Edinburgh. The cause and extent of the damage had yet to
be determined. Two people were killed in a previous explosion and fire
at the plant on March 13. That incident is still being investigated,
the spokesman said. REUTER 

VENEZUELA TO ANNOUCE PARTNER FOR COAL VENTURE
    CARACAS, March 24 - 
Petroleos de Venezuela S.A will announce within two weeks the name of
a foreign consortium it has chosen to help exploit the coal deposits
at Guasare in western Zulia state, PDVSA president Juan Chacin Guzman
said. Chacin told reporters the foreign partner will provide capital
as well as technical and marketing expertise to the Carbozulia
project, which the state oil company will manage. PDVSA officials said
that among those who bid for the partnership is a consortium between
Agip Carbone, a subsidiary of Italy's Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi
(ENI), and Atlantic Richfield <ARC> of the United States. Minister of
Energy and Mines Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said discussions are
currently taking place to finalize the terms of the contract with the
foreign partner. PDVSA vice-president Pablo Reimpell said last week
the first shipment of coal from the Carbozulia project should be made
during the final quarter of 1987, and would measure between
100-150,000 metric tons. Plans call for production to eventually reach
500,000 mt annually. Reimpell said the original investment in the
project will be approximately 8 billion bolivars. Reuter 

U.K. OIL INDUSTRY SAID NOT PERMANENTLY DAMAGED
    LONDON, March 4 - 
The U.K. Offshore oil industry has suffered from last year's collapse
in oil prices but should not sustain any permament damage, Minister of
State for Energy Alick Buchanan-Smith said. The drilling, diving and
supply vessels sectors had been most affected, Buchanan Snith told the
House of Commons energy committee. He noted, however, that oil
companies were still spending six mln stg a day to maintain North Sea
production. He added that a report by the manpower services committee
which said 14,000 jobs were lost in the industry in 1986 should be
seen in the context of a total workforce of 300,000. Prices of North
Sea Brent-grade crude dipped to a low of 8.50 dlrs a barrel last July
from a peak of over 30 dlrs the previous November. They recovered to
around 18 dlrs a barrel after last December's OPEC meeting and Brent
traded today around 17.15 dlrs. Buchanan-Smith said the U.K. Has no
intention of adopting OPEC style quotas, noting that Britian is an
oil-consuming as well as an oil-producing nation. Reuter 

SAUDI OIL MINISTER SEES NO NEED TO ALTER PACT
    RIYADH, March 16 - 
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer said OPEC's December agreement
to stabilize oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel was being implemented
satisfactorily and there was no immediate need to change it. Nazer, in
an interview with Reuters and the television news agency Visnews, said
Saudi Arabia was producing around three mln barrels per day (bpd) of
crude oil, well below its OPEC quota. Saudi Arabia, the world's
largest oil exporter, will continue to restrain production as long as
other OPEC members adhere to the pact, Nazer said. The 13-nation OPEC
agreed in December to cut its production ceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8
mln bpd and abide by fixed prices averaging 18 dlrs a barrel from
February 1. Nazer, in his first interview since succeeding Ahmed Zaki
Yamani last October, said: "I do not foresee any need for new measures
before the 25th of June when our (next OPEC) meeting will take place
as scheduled." Nazer said OPEC was producing below 15.8 mln bpd and
all members were abiding by its agreements. "We've heard news every
now and then of violations but they were not at all verified," he
said. OPEC production curbs have boosted world oil prices from a
13-year low of around eight dlrs a barrel last August to near 18 dlrs
after announcement of the December pact. Spot market prices slipped
some two dlrs in February but have firmed in the past two weeks to
near OPEC levels as traders gained confidence in OPEC price and output
discipline. Nazer said Saudi Arabia would continue to produce below
its 4.133 mln bpd quota if necessary to defend the 18 dlr price. "As
long as all the OPEC members adhere to the program as devised in
December, Saudi Arabia will continue to adhere to the agreement," he
said. Current production of three mln bpd includes oil from the
Neutral Zone shared with Kuwait, but not sales from floating storage,
Nazer said. King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, in an interview with Reuters
and Visnews on March 11, said the kingdom wanted oil price stability
and called on non-OPEC producers to avoid harmful competition with
OPEC. "Saudi Arabia doesn't decide prices by itself but certainly
desires price stability," he said. Nazer said the output level did not
mean the kingdom had returned to a role of "swing producer" within
OPEC. Saudi Arabia allowed its output to sink as low as two mln bpd in
August 1985 to compensate for slack demand and over-production by some
OPEC states. "Saudi Arabia is not playing that role. It is being
played by OPEC membership as a whole because the reduction in the 15.8
mln bpd share of OPEC in the market is being shared by other members
of OPEC," Nazer said. Nazer said OPEC estimated demand for its oil
during third quarter this year would be around 16.6 mln bpd. But he
said if circumstances changed "I am sure then the OPEC members will
consult with each other and take the necessary measures." Oil analysts
say the OPEC pact could come under strain when demand for petroleum
products generally falls in the northern hemisphere spring and summer.
Nazer said he was satisfied with the extent of cooperation from non-
OPEC producers. Norway, Egypt and the Soviet Union agreed to help OPEC
by restraining production or exports after he visited them on OPEC's
behalf earlier this year. "We did not ask any country to do anything.
These were programmes they thought were necessary to stabilise market
conditions and to help themselves attain better pricing conditions,"
Nazer said. He said it was up to countries that declined to cooperate
-- such as Britain -- to come up with their own proposals if they saw
fit. 

SHEARSON LEHMAN UPGRADES U.S. OIL STOCKS
    NEW YORK, March 17 - 
Analyst Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers said he
recommended a number of oil stocks today now that it is apparent that
OPEC has succeeded in holding to its prescribed production quotas. "It
is clear that OPEC, through jawboning and quota restraint, will boost
the price of oil," Margoshes said. Prices of oil stocks rose sharply
today in response to higher oil prices and optimism about OPEC quotas.
Margoshes said he recommends Imperial Oil <IMO.A>, up 1/2 to 49-1/8,
Standard Oil Co <SRD>, 7/8 to 62-3/4, Exxon <XON> one to 83-1/8, and
Chevron <CHV> 1-1/8 to 54-7/8. In addition, Margoshes said he
recommended Atlantic Richfield <ARC> on a short-term basis, though he
said he is still suspect about its debt situation. Atlantic Richfield
rose 1-3/4 to 77. He said "the market could come down to test the 16
dlr a barrel level again, but the main thrust of investing in oil is
positive right now. Before the year is out we will see higher oil
prices." He noted that belief that the government is interested in
raising the strategic reserves is factored into the rise in oil stocks
today. Reuter 

IEA SAYS OPEC FEBRUARY CRUDE OUTPUT 16.1 MLN BPD
    PARIS, March 6 - 
OPEC produced an average 16.1 mln barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil
in February, down from 16.5 mln the previous month and an overall 17.3
mln bpd in fourth quarter 1986, the International Energy Agency said.
A few OPEC countries last month exceeded the production quotas set at
their last conference in December, but liftings were reduced from
several countries, it said in its latest monthly oil market report.
These cutbacks were due in part to buyer resistance to fixed prices,
introduced from February 1, particularly for fixed volumes over an
extended period. It gave this breakdown for OPEC crude output, in mln
bpd FOURTH QTR 1986 JANUARY 1987 FEBRUARY 1987 SAUDI ARABIA 4.9 3.7
3.8 IRAN 1.6 2.2 1.9 IRAQ 1.6 1.6 1.7 UAE 1.3 1.2 1.2 KUWAIT 1.0 1.0
1.0 NEUTRAL ZONE 0.5 0.4 0.4 QATAR 0.3 0.3 0.2 NIGERIA 1.3 1.2 1.2
LIBYA 1.0 1.0 1.0 FOURTH QTR 1986 JANUARY 1987 FEBRUARY 1987 ALGERIA
0.6 0.6 0.6 GABON 0.1 0.2 0.2 VENEZUELA 1.6 1.6 1.6 ECUADOR 0.2 0.2
0.2 INDONESIA 1.3 1.2 1.2 TOTAL 17.3 16.5 16.1 The IEA said while
Saudi production stayed below its quota of 4.133 mln bpd, actual sales
might exceed output due to Norbec stock disposals. Contracts for Saudi
crude have been signed, but it is understood they have much leeway in
required liftings. The report said the reduction in Iraqi air attacks
on Iranian export facilities allowed Iran's output to reach 2.2 mln
bpd in January, but buyer resistance to fixed prices apparently cut
February production. It said Iraqi exports are about 1.0 mln bpd
through the Turkish pipeline, 0.1-0.2 mln by truck through Jordan and
0.2-0.3 mln via the Saudi pipeline to Yanbu. Internal consumption is
some 0.3 mln bpd. The IEA estimated total non-communist world oil
supply in February at 45.0 mln bpd, down from 45.4 mln in January and
47.0 mln in the fourth quarter. The February world supply figure is
made up of 16.1 mln bpd OPEC crude production, 1.4 mln bpd OPEC
natural gas liquids (ngls), 16.6 mln bpd OECD crude and ngls, 8.3 mln
bpd other developing countries' crude and ngls, net trade of 1.1 mln
bpd with centrally planned economies, 0.5 mln bpd of non-conventional
crudes (such as tar sands and oil from coal) and 1.0 mln bpd from
processiing gains. Within the OECD, preliminary Norwegian data show
record 1.06 mln bpd output in January, with lower production expected
in February in accordance with government curtailments of
approximately 80,000 bpd, announced in support of OPEC. REUTER 

STUDY SAYS OIL PRICE FALL SPURS BANKRUPTCIES
    WASHINGTON, March 23 - 
The sharp drop in world oil prices the past year triggered a 60 pct
increase in bankruptcies in the country's oil states, according to a
study released by the American Petroleum Institute (API). API said the
Dunn and Bradstreet study found that business failures rose nationally
by 6.9 pct in 1986 over 1985, but in the "oil patch" of the Southwest
the increase was 59.9 pct. It said bankruptcies in Texas were up 57.4
pct, Oklahoma, 55.9 pct, Colorado, 55.8 pct and Louisiana, 46.6 pct.
In Alaska, failures rose by 66.2 per cent, it said. API also said that
three of the states with the highest number of bank failures last year
were large oil and gas producers - Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. Reuter


TEXACO CANADA CUTS CRUDE PRICES 64 CANADIAN CTS/BBL, PAR GRADE TO 22.26 CANADIAN DLRS








WORLD BANK CHIEF PLEDGES SUPPORT TO INDONESIA
    JAKARTA, March 24 - 
World Bank president Barber Conable pledged the Bank's support to help
Indonesia adjust to lower world oil prices, but said further
deregulation of its protected economy was needed. Speaking to
reporters after talks with President Suharto, he said he expected
Jakarta to do more to liberalise the economy and deregulate trade
policy. Indonesia, hurt by the fall in oil prices last year which cut
the value of its crude exports in half, is the Third World's sixth
largest debtor. It has received 10.7 billion dlrs from the World Bank
in the past 20 years. Conable said the World Bank, which granted
Indonesia a 300 mln dlr loan last month to help its balance of
payments, was prepared to back Jakarta in taking the right steps to
adjust to lower oil and primary commodity prices. "We are prepared to
support those steps which we believe are consistent with the
development of the Indonesian economy," he said. He said Jakarta's
willingness to move quickly after last year's collapse in oil price
saved Indonesia from some of the difficulties now faced by other
countries. Indonesia devalued its currency by 31 pct against the
dollar in September to avoid a balance of payments crisis, and has
announced a series of measures since May intended to stimulate
exports, encourage foreign investment and revitalise the economy.
However, key monopolies in areas like steel and plastics and high
tariff barriers remain in place. Conable arrived in Indonesia on
Saturday and has since met 14 Indonesian cabinet ministers to review
the country's borrowing needs and the impact of falling oil prices on
the country. REUTER 

SAUDI OIL MINISTER SEES NO NEED TO ALTER OPEC PACT
    RIYADH, March 15 - 
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer said OPEC's December agreement
to stabilise oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel was being implemented
satisfactorily and there was no immediate need to change it. Nazer, in
an interview with Reuters and the television news agency Visnews, said
Saudi Arabia was producing around three mln barrels per day (bpd) of
crude oil, well below its OPEC quota. Saudi Arabia, the world's
largest oil exporter, will continue to restrain production as long as
other OPEC members adhere to the pact, Nazer said. The 13-nation OPEC
agreed in December to cut its production ceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8
mln bpd and abide by fixed prices averaging 18 dlrs a barrel from
February 1. Nazer, in his first interview since succeeding Ahmed Zaki
Yamani last October, said: "I do not foresee any need for new measures
before the 25th of June when our (next OPEC) meeting will take place
as scheduled." Nazer said OPEC was producing below 15.8 mln bpd and
all members were abiding by its agreements. "We've heard news every
now and then of violations but they were not at all verified," he
said. OPEC production curbs have boosted world oil prices from a
13-year low of around eight dlrs a barrel last August to near 18 dlrs
after announcement of the December pact. Spot market prices slipped
some two dlrs in February but have firmed in the past two weeks to
near OPEC levels as traders gained confidence in OPEC price and output
discipline. Nazer said Saudi Arabia would continue to produce below
its 4.133 mln bpd quota if necessary to defend the 18 dlr price. "As
long as all the OPEC members adhere to the program as devised in
December, Saudi Arabia will continue to adhere to the agreement," he
said. Current production of three mln bpd includes oil from the
Neutral Zone shared with Kuwait, but not sales from floating storage,
Nazer said. King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, in an interview with Reuters
and Visnews on March 11, said the kingdom wanted oil price stability
and called on non-OPEC producers to avoid harmful competition with
OPEC. "Saudi Arabia doesn't decide prices by itself but certainly
desires price stability," he said. Nazer said the output level did not
mean the kingdom had returned to a role of "swing producer" within
OPEC. Saudi Arabia allowed its output to sink as low as two mln bpd in
August 1985 to compensate for slack demand and over-production by some
OPEC states. "Saudi Arabia is not playing that role. It is being
played by OPEC membership as a whole because the reduction in the 15.8
mln bpd share of OPEC in the market is being shared by other members
of OPEC," Nazer said. Nazer said OPEC estimated demand for its oil
during third quarter this year would be around 16.6 mln bpd. But he
said if circumstances changed "I am sure then the OPEC members will
consult with each other and take the necessary measures." Oil analysts
say the OPEC pact could come under strain when demand for petroleum
products generally falls in the northern hemisphere spring and summer.
Nazer said he was satisfied with the extent of cooperation from non-
OPEC producers. Norway, Egypt and the Soviet Union agreed to help OPEC
by restraining production or exports after he visited them on OPEC's
behalf earlier this year. "We did not ask any country to do anything.
These were programmes they thought were necessary to stabilise market
conditions and to help themselves attain better pricing conditions,"
Nazer said. He said it was up to countries that declined to cooperate
-- such as Britain -- to come up with their own proposals if they saw
fit. REUTER 

U.S. WARNS OF DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
A White House-ordered report said that growing U.S. reliance on
foreign oil into the year 2000 could have potentially damaging
implications for national security. The Energy Department study
discusses several options to curb reliance on foreign oil, but makes
no recommendations. President Reagan and most Congressmen have
previously ruled out a tax on foreign oil as a way to curb imports and
to help the depressed domestic oil industry. Energy Secretary John
Herrington said in a statement that "although we have made gains in
energy security in the last six years, this report shows that there is
justification for national concern both over declining competitiveness
of our domestic oil and gas industry and over rising oil imports." The
report said imports last year were 33 pct of U.S. consumption and by
the mid-1990s could rise to 50 pct. Among the report's options to ease
U.S. reliance on foreign oil are several already advocated by the
Reagan Administration. President Reagan ordered the study last
September, citing a determination that the country never again become
captive to a foreign oil cartel, referring to the OPEC-led oil
shortages and sharp prices increases of the 1970s. The report said an
import fee would raise prices and help make it economical for U.S. oil
firms to find and produce new oil, as well as to cut imports, but on
the whole the tax would depress the nation's economy. The study was
outlined in a New York Times report today. Reuter 

WAINCO OIL <WOL> COMPLETES WILDCAT WELL
    HOUSTON, March 17 - 
Wainco Oil Corp said it has completed a wildcat well on its
GrandMarais prspect in Jefferson Davis Parish, La., which is currently
producing at a rate of 1.1 mln cubic feet of gas and 40 barrels of
condensate daily. The company said it has a 20 pct working interest in
the well which is flowing from Lower Frion Tweedel Sand perforations
between 10,104 and 10,110 feet. Additional untested but possibly
productive zones exist behind the pipe, it added. It said the
remaining owners are privately held petroleum companies. Reuter 

UNION PACIFIC <UNP>CLOSES VENEZUELAN PARTNERSHIP
    NEW YORK, March 31 - 
Union Pacific Corp said it has closed the previously announced 50-50
partnership with Petroleos de Venezuela SA, Venezuela's national oil
company, to own a 160,000 barrel per day refinery in Corpus Christi,
Texas. Union Pacific said the partnership, called Champlin Refining
Co, will acquire the refining and distribution system owned and
operated by Union Pacific's Champlin Petroleum Co subsidiary. The
Venezuelan company also signed a 25-year feedstock agreement with the
partnership to supply at least 140,000 barrels a day of Venezuelan
crude oil and naphtha at market related prices. Reuter 

OPEC WITHIN OUTPUT CEILING, SUBROTO SAYS
    JAKARTA, March 3 - 
Opec remains within its agreed output ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels a
day, and had expected current fluctuations in the spot market of one
or two dlrs, Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said. He told
reporters after meeting with President Suharto that present weakness
in the spot oil market was the result of warmer weather in the U.S.
And Europe which reduced demand for oil. Prices had also been forced
down because refineries were using up old stock, he said. He denied
that Opec was exceeding its agreed production ceiling. Asked what
Opec's output level was now, he replied: "Below 15.8 (mln barrels per
day)." He did not elaborate. He said there appeared to have been some
attempts to manipulate the market, but if all Opec members stick by
the cartel's December pricing agreement it would get through present
price difficulties. He predicted that prices would recover again in
the third and fourth quarters of 1987. He also reiterated that there
was no need for an emergency Opec meeting. He said Opec had expected
to see some fluctuations in the spot price. "We hope the weak price
will be overcome, and predict the price will be better in the third
and fourth quarters." Refiners, he said, appeared to have used up old
stock deliberately to cause slack demand in the market and the price
to fall. But Opec would get through this period if members stuck
together. REUTER 

NP ENERGY <NPEEQ> SAYS TRUSTEE APPOINTED
    LOS ANGELES, April 2 - 
NP Energy Corp said the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has indicated it will
appoint a trustee to oversee the company's Chapter 11 bankruptcy
proceedings. It said it hopes the appointment will thwart "hostile"
actions being pursued by two unsecured creditors to whose claims the
company objects. NP further said the Nielsen 1-20 well in Duchesne
County, Utah, has tested 300 barrels of oil per day. NP owns a 61 pct
working interest. Reuter 

OCCIDENTAL <OXY> IN BIG PERU HEAVY OIL FIND
    LOS ANGELES, April 7 - 
Occidental Petroleum Corp said the Shiviyacu-23 development well on
Block 1-AB in the Peruvian Amazon jungle is producing 6,593 barrels of
22 degree gravity oil per day from depths of 9,543 to 9,547 and 9,556
to 9,599 feet. The company said it is drilling a new exploration well
on the block, Southeast Shiviyacu-1, 2.5 miles away. Reuter 

PHILLIPS RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS EFFECTIVE TODAY, WTI TO 17.50 dlrs/bbl




DIAMOND SHAMROCK <DIA> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, MAR 5 - 
Diamond Shamrock said it raised its posted prices for all grades of
crude oil one dlr a barrel, effective yesterday. The one dlr increase
brings West Texas Intermediate, WTI the U.S. benchmark crude, to 17.00
dlrs a bbl, the company said. Diamond Shamrock joined Sun Co, Coastal,
Citgo and Murphy Oil in raising crude oil posted prices one dlr a
barrel yesterday. Reuter 

DIAMOND SHAMROCK RAISED CRUDE BY 50 CTS/BBL TODAY. WTI UP TO 17.50 DLRS.




BP<BP> OFFER RAISES EXPECTATIONS FOR OIL VALUES
    NEW YORK, March 26 - 
British Petroleum Plc's plan to pay 7.4 billion dlrs for less than
half of Standard Oil Co has signalled higher values in the U.S. oil
patch, analysts said. "I think that BP's bid is a very strong
affirmation and clear signal that they have confidence in the U.S.,
and they think the barrel of oil in the ground is going to go higher,"
said Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. BP earlier
today said its U.S. unit planned to tender at 70 dlrs per share for
the 45 pct of Standard it does not already own. "It's a 7.4 billion
dlr price that (shows) OPEC has won the war and oil prices are not
going to crack," said Prescott, Ball and Turben analyst Bruce Lazier.
"Behind that is a huge implication for the rest of the energy issues
out there in the stock market, particularly those that are acquisition
targets," Lazier said. One of those mentioned by Lazier was USX Corp,
an energy-steel concern which had been courted by investor Carl Icahn
and drew the attention of Australian Robert Holmes a Court last year.
Rumors continue to swirl around its stock. Margoshes said he does not
foresee major U.S. oil firms falling into takeover situations for
several years, with the exception of possibly Amerada Hess Corp <AHC>.
He said most of the majors found partners in the last round of
matchmaking which ended two years ago, and others restructured to the
point that they have become unattractive. U.S. oil stocks rallied in
response to the offer. Exxon Corp <XON> rose 1-1/8 to 88-1/2. Chevron
Corp <CHV> jumped 1-1/8 to 58-7/8, and Texaco <TX> climbed 1/4 to
37-3/4. Unocal Corp <UCL> rose 1-3/4, while Occidental Petroleum Corp
<OXY> climbed 1-1/8 to 34-3/4. Amoco Corp <AN> rose 1-3/8 to 83-3/4.
Standard Oil's stock was up 6-1/4 in heavy trading to 71-1/8. Earlier
in the session it had been at a high of 72-1/4. Wall Street has
speculated British Petroleum may boost its offer by several dlrs per
share, but the company maintained it would not raise the 70 dlr bid.
British Petroleum stock rose 2-1/4 to 59-5/8. Analysts said the fact
British Petroleum made such a bid in the first place indicates that
the British oil giant has changed its outlook for the oil industry.
Analysts said last year British Petroleum held one of the more bearish
positions on oil prices. "They said the real price of oil would stay
at 15 dlrs (a barrel) for several years, and I think they beat a hasty
retreat from that point of view," Margoshes said. "They are more
appropriately today looking more optimistically. I believe they are
looking at 18 dlrs (long-term)...also in their heart of hearts they
believe that will be exceeded," Margoshes said. The U.S. benchmark
crude West Texas Intermediate was trading today around 18.60 dlrs per
barrel. Analysts said British Petroleum might have been able to buy up
the rest of Standard Oil for about 50 dlrs per share when oil prices
were falling last year. They said Standard Oil's brightest asset is
its slightly more than 50 pct ownership of the Alaskan Prudhoe Bay oil
field. Analysts also said the company has other interests in the
Alaskan North Slope. Analysts said the Standard investment is
extremely attractive to BP because the U.S. is the largest oil market
and has hard-to-replace reserves. "I think it just fits in with their
long-range plans to increase their position in the U.S. market," Dean
Witter analyst Eugene Nowak said. Analysts said it also raises BP's
visibility ahead of the British government's announced disposal of
31.7 pct of BP stock. The U.K. government said it would dispose of the
holding sometime in the year beginning April one. After acquiring all
of Standard, most of BP's reserves would be in the U.S., but only
about six pct of its stock is held in the U.S. "The only way they can
sell all that stock is to move it into the United States. No other
market can handle all that stock," said L.F. rothschild analyst
Rosario Ilacqua. In 1986, Standard Oil had net losses of 345 mln dlrs
on revenues of 10.02 billion dlrs, compared to a profit the year
earlier of 308 mln dlrs on revenues of 13.82 billion dlrs. Reuter 

ECUADOR BEGINS WORK ON OIL PIPELINE TO COLOMBIA
    QUITO, March 13 - 
Construction workers today began building a 26 km (16 mile) pipeline
to link Ecuador's jungle oilfields to a pipeline in Colombia through
which Ecuadorean crude could be pumped to the Pacific Coast,
Ecuadorean energy minsitry officials said. They said it would take
about two months and at least 15 mln dlrs to build the pipeline from
Lago Agrio in Ecuador to Puerto Colon, Colombia for connection to the
Colombian pipeline, which goes to the port of Tumaco on Colombia's
Pacific Ocean coast. The Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon pipeline is
designed to transport between 30,000 to 50,000 barrels of day (bpd) of
Ecuadorean crude to the Colombian pipeline, they said. The Colombian
pipeline to Tumaco has ample room for Ecuadorean crude, they said. It
is currently transporting about 17,000 bpd out of its 100,000 bpd
capacity, an Ecuadorean energy ministry official said. The Ecuadorean
crude reaching Tumaco will be shipped by boat to Ecuador for refining
into oil products to meet domestic demand. The completion of the
pipeline would allow Ecuador to resume some of production, paralysed
since March six by an earthquake the night before. The tremor ruptured
the country's main pipeline from jungle oilfields to the Ecuadorean
port of Balao, on the Pacific Ocean. Ecuador was pumping about 260,000
bpd before the earthquake. It would take about five months to repair
the pipeline to Balao, government officials said. Ecuador estimates
that it will cost between 145 to 150 mln dlrs to repair oil
installations damaged by the earthquake, energy ministry Javier
Espinosa said. Reuter 

OIL PRICES RISE ON SAUDI EFFORT
    NEW YORK, MARCH 3 - 
Crude oil prices rallied today, moving over 17.00 dlrs a barrel
because of Saudi Arabia's determined effort to support prices,
analysts said. "The Saudis and other OPEC nations are jawboning the
market, hoping to restore confidence and prices and to do this without
another meeting," said Sanford Margoshes, oil analyst with Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc. "But OPEC is not out of the woods yet by a
longshot due to seasonal declines in demand and some cheating," he
added. Oil industry analysts said Saudi Arabia has led the attempt to
get other OPEC members to resist pressures to discount from the
official prices agreed to last december. The analysts said that to get
others to hold the line, Saudi Arabia pushed hard at the meeting of
deputy oil ministers of the Gulf Cooperation Council last weekend and
at the Cooperation Council oil ministers' meeting the previous week.
The Saudis have also offered to support members having difficulty in
selling their oil, analysts said. "They are trying to make sure that
no one discounts, and to prevent that, it appears that Saudi Arabia or
some other OPEC member will allocate some of their oil sales to help
members that lose sales," Margoshes said. He added that the
allocations would probably be in the form of loans to be repaid when
these nations resume sales. Analysts said this would be useful in
keeping in line nations like Qatar, which has had trouble selling oil.
But it is also likely that such assistance would be provided to
Nigeria which is under pressure to extend discounts. Analysts said
that Saudi Arabia, with assistance from OPEC president Rilwanu Lukman,
was trying to avoid an emergency OPEC meeting for fear that it would
give the appearance that the December pact is falling apart. Daniel
McKinley, oil analyst with Smith Barney, Upham Harris and Co said,
"both physical and futures markets have been oversold and it only took
a small spark to bring on a short covering rally." He believes an
Iranian trade mission to Tokyo, which refused discounts to Japanese
buyers, brought Japanese refiners into the market to cover their short
positions. Oil traders said one japanese refiner came into the market
to but 10 cargoes of May Dubai, which sent prices up on Mideast sours,
with Dubai trading up to 16.50 dlrs after trading yeterray as low as
15.63 dlrs and then spilled over into the North sea crude oil market.
Traders said that there have been persistent rumors today that
Japanese buyers are looking to pick up cargoes of Brent for Japan and
European trade sources indidate rumors of vessels being fixed to make
such shipments. North sea brent today rose over 17.00 dlrs with trades
reported as high as 17.05 dlrs, up one dlr. OPEC members' denials that
they are producing over their quotas sparked moves to cover short
postitions. Indonesian oil minister Subroto said today that OPEC
production was below the 15.8 mln bpd quota agreed to last december
but he gave no details on OPEC production against claims it was more
at least one mln bpd above that level. "The production probably is
about their quota level and largely because Saudi Arabia will not
discount and canot sell its oil as a result," Margoshes said. Analysts
have mixed opinions about the extent of the current rally. Some
believe prices can continue to rise if Saudi Arabia and OPEC hold
steady in a refusal to discount. But others said that despite the
rally today there were still several fundamental factors, including
demand, which could cut the rally short. Marion Stewart, an indepedent
petroleum economist, said slow growth in the economies of the U.S. and
OECD would keep demand for oil slack and he now estimates that demand
to rise about 1.4 pct over 1986. Reuter 

USX <X> UNIT TO RAISE MOST CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, March 11 - 
USX's subsidiary, Marathon Petroleum Co, said it will raise its
contract prices for eleven grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel,
effective tomorrow. The increase brings Marathon's posted price for
West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a
barrel. The Light Louisiana grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs
a barrel. Reuter 

GULF ARAB DEPUTY OIL MINISTERS TO MEET IN BAHRAIN
    ABU DHABI, March 2 - 
Deputy oil ministers from six Gulf Arab states will meet in Bahrain
today to discuss coordination of crude oil marketing, the official
Emirates news agency WAM reported. WAM said the officials would be
discussing implementation of last Sunday's agreement in Doha by Gulf
Cooperation Council (GCC) oil ministers to help each other market
their crude oil. Four of the GCC states - Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates (UAE), Kuwait and Qatar - are members of the
Organiaation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and some face
stiff buyer resistance to official OPEC prices. Reuter 

VENEZUELA TO LEND ECUADOR 50,000 BPD OF CRUDE
    CARACAS, March 12 - 
Venezuela will lend Ecuador 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil over
the next few months to help it meet its export commitments, Energy and
Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said today. He said that
under the terms of this loan, agreed during a visit here this week by
Ecuador's Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite, Ecuador will
begin repaying the loan in August. Hernandez Grisanti said the loan
will go part way to offsetting the loss of Ecuador's 140,000 in
exports caused by earthquake damage to 25 miles of pipeline last week.
Ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipeline connecting
its jungle oil fields with the pacific port of Balao was put out of
action. Venezuela has an output quota of 1.495 bpd, while Ecuador's is
210,000 bpd. Santos Alvite said Ecuador will ask OPEC to allow it to
produce 100,000 bpd above its quota when the pipeline is repaired to
offset present production losses. Hernandez Grisanti said also a first
300,000 barrels shipment of Venezuelan crude oil will leave for
Ecuador this weekend to
NYMEX WILL EXPAND OFF-HOUR TRADING APRIL ONE
     NEW YORK, March 2 - 
The New York Mercantile Exchange set April one for the debut of a new
procedure in the energy complex that will increase the use of energy
futures worldwide. On April one, NYMEX will allow oil traders that do
not hold a futures position to initiate, after the exchange closes, a
transaction that can subsequently be hedged in the futures market,
according to an exchange spokeswoman. "This will change the way oil is
transacted in the real world," said said Thomas McKiernan, McKiernan
and Co chairman. Foreign traders will be able to hedge trades against
NYMEX prices before the exchange opens and negotiate prices at a
differential to NYMEX prices, McKiernan explained. The expanded
program "will serve the industry because the oil market does not close
when NYMEX does," said Frank Capozza, secretary of Century Resources
Inc. The rule change, which has already taken effect for platinum
futures on NYMEX, is expected to increase the open interest and
liquidity in U.S. energy futures, according to traders and analysts.
Currently, at least one trader in this transaction, called an exchange
for physical or EFP, must hold a futures position before entering into
the transaction. Under the new arrangement, neither party has to hold
a futures position before entering into an EFP and one or both parties
can offset their cash transaction with a futures contract the next
day, according to exchange officials. When NYMEX announced its
proposed rule change in December, NYMEX President Rosemary McFadden,
said, "Expansion of the EFP provision will add to globalization of the
energy markets by providing for, in effect, 24-hour trading." The
Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved the rule change in
February, according to a CFTC spokeswoman. Reuter 

KUWAIT SAYS OPEC 2.4 MLN BPD BELOW CEILING
    KUWAIT, March 24 - 
Kuwaiti oil minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah said OPEC was
producing well below its oil output ceiling and this would help prices
move higher, according to a Kuwaiti newspaper interview. The al-Rai
al-Aam newspaper quoted him as saying OPEC was pumping 2.4 mln barrels
per day (bpd) less than its 15.8 mln bpd ceiling, while consumers were
drawing down their petroleum stocks at a rate of 4.5 mln bpd. As long
as OPEC maintains its output curbs, demand for its oil will rise in
April and May, Sheikh Ali said, adding that Kuwait was strongly
committed to its OPEC quota. REUTER 

COOPERATIVE ENERGY TESTS OIL AT TWO WELLS
    CALGARY, Alberta, April 7 - 
<Cooperative Energy Development Corp> said two exploratory oil wells
in the Zama area of Alberta tested 1,020 and 950 barrels a day, and
will increase the company's daily oil production by 30 pct. The
company did not immediately elaborate on total production figures. The
wells, flowing oil from the Keg River formation, will be constrained
to combined production of about 450 barrels a day to optimize reserve
recovery, the company said. Permanent production facilities are being
installed and the wells will produce to pipeline by mid-April. Reuter


ECUADOR QUAKE TO CUT OIL REVENUES 800 MLN DLRS
    Quito, march 9 - 
up to 300 people were feared dead and more than 15,000 people left
homeless by thursday's earthquake, which will cost Ecuador close to
800 mln dlrs in lost petroleum revenues, authorities said. They
estimated the cost of repairing a damaged oil pipeline at 150 mln
dlrs. "the magnitude of the damages caused by the earthquake is
gigantic," president leon febres cordero said after inspecting the
damages in napo, the hardest-hit jungle province, 100 miles from here.
The quake damaged 40 km of an oil pipeline, forcing this opec nation
to suspend crude exports for four months, president febres cordero
said in a statement issued today by the presidential press office. The
country would lose an estimated 800 mln dlrs in crude exports until
the pipeline was repaired, the president said. It would cost 150 mln
dlrs to repair the pipelline which carries oil from jungle oil fields
over the andes to Balao, a pacific ocean port. Crude traditionally
accounts for up to two-thirds of ecuador's exports. the quake
triggered landslides, swelling the aguarico river which burst it banks
carrying away homes and huts in napo province, health minister jorge
brancho told reuters. "we fear that up to 300 people died in napo
though there is no way of now knowing the exact figure because many
people have disappeared," he said. Other estimates ranged as high as
500 dead. So far 20 corpses have been recovered, bracho said.
Information Minister Marco Lara told reporters: "the number of dead
and injured is not known ... because we do not know how many people
lived in the homes hit by the landslides." Bracho said at least 15,000
were left homeless in the cayambe district. Reuter 

NORWAY OFFERS 11TH LICENCE ROUND OFFSHORE BLOCKS
    OSLO, March 25 - 
Norway has offered 10 new offshore blocks to foreign and domestic
applicants in the first phase of the country's eleventh concession
round, government officials said. Company shares in each of the
licences proposed by the Oil and Energy Ministry are not final. The
ministry has given the companies 10 days to accept or decline the
proposed shares. French companies Ste Nationale Elf Aquitaine
<ELFP.PA> and Total Cie Francaise des Petroles <TPN.PA>, which were
expected to receive operatorships following France's agreement last
autumn to purchase gas from Norway's Troll field, were not offered
operatorships in this round, industry sources said. Three eleventh
round blocks were awarded in the Haltenbanken exploration tract off
central Norway, including the Smoerbukk West field where Den Norske
Stats Oljeselskap A/S <STAT.OL> (Statoil) was appointed operator.
Statoil will share the licence with subsidiaries of U.S. Oil companies
Tenneco Inc <TGT.N> and Texas Eastern Corp <TET.N> and the Italian oil
company <Agip SpA>'s Norwegian subsidiary. E.I. Du Pont de Nemours
<DD.N> subsidiary Conoco Norway Inc was named operator on Haltenbanken
block 6406/8 and will share the licence with Statoil. Norsk Hydro A/S
<NHY.OL> will operate nearby block 6407/10 with partners Statoil,
Norsk Agip A/S, Royal Dutch/Shell Group's <RD.AS> A/S Norske Shell and
<Deminex> unit Deminex (Norge) A/S. Statoil has been offered the
operatorship on a new block in the relatively unexplored Moere South
exploration area south of Haltenbanken, with A/S Norske Shell, Texas
Eastern and <Petroleo Brasileiro SA> (Petrobras) also offered stakes
in the block. Norwegian companies landed operatorships on all six
blocks opened in the Barents Sea area off northern Norway. The blocks
were awarded in three licenses, each covering two blocks. Statoil will
head exploration on blocks 7224/7 and 7224/8, sharing the licence with
Exxon Corp's <XON.N> Norwegian subsidiary Esso Norge A/S, The British
Petroleum Co PLC's <BP.L> BP Petroleum Development (Norway) Ltd,
Shell, Norsk Hydro and Saga Petroleum A/S <SAGP.OL>. Blocks 7219/9 and
7220/7 were awarded to Norsk Hydro, the operator, Statoil, Mobil
Corp's <MOB.N> Mobil Exploration Norway, Petrofina SA's <PETB.BR>
Norske Fina A/S and BP. The third Barents Sea licence, covering blocks
7124/3 and 7125/1, went to Saga Petroleum A/S, the operator, Statoil,
Atlantic Richfield Co's <ARC.N> Arco Norge A/S, Total Marine Norge A/S
and Amerada Hess Corp <AHC.N>. The oil ministry withheld awards on
four strategic blocks included in the eleventh round's second phase.
The ministry is accepting applications for phase two blocks until
early April and the awards will likely be announced this summer,
officials said. REUTER 

SAUDI ARABIA'S KING FAHD WANTS STABLE OIL PRICES
    RIYADH, March 11 - 
King Fahd said today Saudi Arabia wants oil price stability and he
called on non-OPEC producers to avoid harmful competition with the 13
nation group. His plea, in an interview with Reuters and the
television news agency Visnews, came ahead of a state visit he will
make to Britain later this month. King Fahd was asked whether Saudi
Arabia would be prepared to reduce its oil output below its OPEC quota
of 4.133 mln barrels per day (bpd) to defend the 18 dlr benchmark
price agreed to by OPEC last December. The King replied: "Saudi Arabia
doesn't decide prices by itself but certainly desires price
stability." Non-OPEC countries "must help us in a framework of common
interest so that there is no type of competition which could prove
harmful to everyone," he said. Asked if he saw the 18 dlr per barrel
benchmark as a first step towards higher world oil prices, King Fahd
said it was not for Saudi Arabia but for all OPEC countries to
determine such issues. Iran and Algeria have already called for a
higher benchmark. In recent weeks the 18 dlr level has come under
pressure, due partly to quota violations by some OPEC members. King
Fahd said Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, was adhering
to decisions made at OPEC's December conference which set a 15.8 mln
bpd output ceiling for the first half of 1987. A major non-OPEC
producer, Britain has so far resisted the group's pleas to curb its
North Sea oil output. The King also urged the world community to help
the Palestinians return to their homeland and called for a peaceful
end to the Iran-Iraq war. The 6-1/2-year-old war could not be resolved
on the battlefield, he said. REUTER 

MOBIL RAISES WEST COAST CRUDE PRICES BETWEEN ONE DLR AND
1.75 DLRS/BBL TODAY




POWERINE REFINERY TO RESUME OPERATIONS
    SANTA FE SPRINGS, CALIF, March 12 - 
<Powerine Oil Co> said its refinery here will resume operation today,
with initial crude oil runs of 20,000 barrels per day. Powerine, a
privately-held company, said it expects the refinery to become fully
operational by May, with crude oil throughput at 35,000 bpd. Initial
oil products deliveries are scheduled for Monday, Powerine said. The
refinery had been closed due to a change of ownership, the company
said. Reuter 

PETRO-CANADA CUT CRUDE PRICES BY 1.43 CANADIAN DLRS/BBL EFFECTIVE MARCH ONE




BRAZIL TO BUY 30,000 BPD OF KUWAITI OIL
    RIO DE JANEIRO, April 3 - 
Brazil will import 30,000 barrels per day of crude oil from Kuwait, a
spokesman for the state oil company Petrobras said. He said that,
unlike Saudi Arabia, Kuwait did not impose any conditions on Brazil.
Last month, Petrobras cancelled a 40-mln dlr oil purchase from Saudi
Arabia after the Saudis refused to accept credit guarantees from the
official Bank of Brazil. The Saudis eventually lifted the condition
and Brazil decided to reconfirm the purchase. Brazil currently
consumes 1.1 mln barrels of oil per day. Reuter 

SHELL CANADA CUTS CRUDE OIL PRICES BY UP TO 1.27 CANADIAN DLRS/BBL EFFECTIVE MARCH ONE




PLAINS <PLNS> POSTS RESERVES INCREASES
    OKLAHOMA CITY, March 17 - 
Plains Resources Inc said that as of December 31, its estimated proved
oil and gas reserves rose by 27 pct to 5.43 mln barrels from 4.27 mln
barrels and proved developed reserves rose 16 pct to four mln barrels
from 3.45 mln barrels a year ago. The company said its year end
reserves did not include the oil and gas reserves of Houston Oil
Fields Co which recently agreed to merge with it, pending shareholder
approval in mid-April. If approved, the merger will add another 3.2
mln barrels to the company's reserve base. Reuter 

INDIA GETS 140 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN
    WASHINGTON, March 12 - 
The World Bank said it has approved a 140 mln dlr loan for India to
help lessen that country's dependence on imported oil and spur
development of its own petroleum resources. The bank said the loan
will be used to boost production by injecting gas in the partially
depleted Assam oil fields and to assist exploration in other areas,
including drilling 10 exploratory wells. The bank said the recipient
of the 20-year loan will be Oil India Ltd (OIL), which is the smaller
of two public Indian petroleum exploration and production companies.
Reuter 

AUSTRALIAN OIL TAX CUT SEEN BOOSTING OUTPUT
    SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 23 - 
A 10 percentage point reduction in the Australian government's maximum
crude oil levy on old oil would stabilize Bass Straits oil output,
resources analyst Ian Story said here. A reduction to 70 pct from 80
pct would enable Bass Strait output to be maintained at the current
rate of 420,000 barrels per day (BPD) for the next year rather than
falling to 380,000 BPD in 1987/88, he told the Australian Petroleum
Exploration Association annual conference. Story is an analyst with
and a director of Sydney stockbroker Meares and Philips Ltd. Windfall
profits taxes on Bass Strait crude are no longer appropriate in the
current economic climate, Story said. The maximum 80 pct levy on old
oil -- that discovered before September 1975 -- is now forcing the
Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd <BRKN.S>/Exxon Corp <XON> partnership to shut-
in production, accelerating the decline in output and reducing
government revenue, he said. He said the producer return per barrel at
a price of 30 Australian dlrs a barrel would rise to 2.07 dlrs from
0.80 dlrs if the levy was cut to 70 pct. "The economics at an 80 pct
levy are simply not attractive at oil prices below 30 dlrs," Story
said. Cutting the maximum levy rate to 70 pct would create higher
levels of self-sufficiency, increase government revenue, boost exports
and provide incentives for exploration and development, he said. The
government is currently reviewing the oil tax structure. REUTER 

PETROBRAS CANCELS OIL PURCHASE FROM SAUDI ARABIA
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 13 - 
Brazil's state oil company Petrobras has cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude
oil purchase from Saudi Arabia after the Saudis refused to accept
credit guarantees from the Bank of Brazil and did not disclose
reasons, a Petrobras official said. Export director Carlos Santana
told reporters the Saudis were the first suppliers of oil to impose
such conditions after Brazil's decision to halt interest payment of
its commercial debts last month. The shipment of 2.2 mln barrels
represents two days of consumption. He said the Saudis reported they
would no longer accept letters of credit from the Bank of Brazil or
even from Saudi banks and that Brazil would have to obtain credit
guarantees from leading international banks. In February, Brazil had
contracted to buy 125,000 bpd from the Saudis until June. Saudi Arabia
is Brazil's second biggest oil supplier, with an average 115,000 bpd.
Iraq is the main supplier with 235,000 bpd. China comes third, with
58,000 bpd. "If the Saudis wish to stop our trade relationship...I am
sure that if they do, we will be getting dozens of offers from
elsewhere," Santana added. Santana said if the Saudis change their
minds and decide to respect the terms of the contract, then Petrobras
will lift the order to cancel the shipment. The Saudis had put similar
conditions on a previous shipment, he added. "We telexed them saying
that if they insisted, we would rather cancel the contract and buy the
product elsewhere," Santana said. After Petrobras threatened to cancel
the contract, the Saudis changed their minds and decided to accept the
Bank of Brazil's credit guarantees, he said. REUTER 

EIA SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK
    WASHINGTON, March 11 - 
Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 8.8 mln barrels
in the week ended March six to 119.6 mln barrels, the Energy
Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status
report, the Department of Energy agency said gasoline stocks were off
500,000 barrels in the week to 251.0 mln barrels and refinery crude
oil stocks fell 1.2 mln barrels to 331.8 mln. The EIA said residual
fuel stocks fell 1.5 mln barrels to 36.4 mln barrels and crude oil
stocks in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) rose 200,000 barrels
to 516.7 mln. The total of all crude, refined product and SPR stocks
fell 10.3 mln barrels to 1,564.8, it said. Reuter 

EXXON <XON> MAY CLOSE ONE FRENCH REFINERY
    NEW YORK, MARCH 17 - 
Exxon Corp, the world's largest oil company, said in a published
interview today that it was reviewing its worldwide refinery
operations and might decide to close on of its french refineries. Lee
R. Raymond, Exxon's new president, singled out the possibility of a
closure of one of Exxon's refineries in France during the interview.
An Exxon spokeswoman confirmed that Raymond had specifically mentioned
refineries in France but said that no specific refinery had been
named. She also said that all of Exxon's opertations were under
constant review. Exxon currently has two refineries in France, FOS in
the mediterranean with a capcity of 175,000 barrels per day and Port
Jerome west of paris with a similar capacity. Petroleum Intelligence
Weekly, an influential trade journal, said, in its current issue, that
they understood that Exxon was looking at the possibility of refinery
closures in Antwerp, Southern France or possibly Italy. Paul Mlotok,
oil analyst with Salomon Brothers inc said that with the closures
Exxon made in 1986 in Europe and the improvement in the European
refining situation, its future profits there should be good. "Exxon
and other major oil companies have closed a bunch of refineries in
Europe, upgraded the rest and shaken many of the indepedents out of
the market. Now with demand for products rising and efficient
operations, Exxon should show superior earnings," Mlotok said. "Just
after Royal Dutch <RD>, they are seen as one of the highest grade
refiners in Europe," he added. Industry sources said that the oil
companies were likely to feel greater pressure on their operations in
Southern Europe where competition from the OPEC countries is
increasing as these producers move further into downstream operations.
PIW said that refiners in the Mediterranean can expect increased
shipments from Saudi Arabia and other OPEC export refineries. PIW said
"sales from Libya, Algeria and elsewhere are expected to reclaim
markets lost to Italian and other European refiners as a result of the
abundance of cheap netback oil last year." Reuter 

UNOCAL <UCL> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, March 12 - 
Unocal Corp said it raised the contract price it will pay for most
grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The increase
brings Unocal's posted price for the U.S. benchmark grade West Texas
Intermediate to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. It also brought the price for
West Texas Sour to 17.50 dlrs a bbl. Light Louisiana Sweet was also
raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs/bbl. Unocal last changed its crude
postings on March four, and brings it price in line with other major
companies, which have been raising prices steadily in recent weeks.
The increase also represents the latest in a series of increases that
began with USX Corp's <X> Marathon Petroleum Corp's notification
yesterday evening that, effective today, it raised its crude postings
50 cts a barrel, bringing its contract price for WTI to 17.50 dlrs a
barrel. Earlier today, Sun Co <SUN>, Phillips Petroleum <P> and
Diamond Shamrock <DIA> also said they raised their crude postings 50
cts a barrel, bringing their WTI contract price to 17.50 dlrs a
barrel. Contract prices have risen in response to higher spot market
prices, oil traders said. Reuter 

CANADA NORTHWEST TO SELL PREFERRED SHARES
    CALGARY, Alberta, March 20 - 
<Canada Northwest Energy Ltd> said it reached agreement in principle
to sell one mln preferred shares by way of private placement to raise
32.5 mln dlrs for oil and gas exploration. The 5.4 pct cumulative
redeemable convertible series D preferred shares will be flow-through
shares entitling holders to tax deductions not claimed by the company.
The shares will be convertible anytime after issue into common shares
at an equivalent conversion price of 32.50 dlrs a share. After one
year, they will be redeemable at any time by the company at 25 dlrs a
share plus accrued dividends. Reuter 

IRAQ OIL MINISTER QASSEM AHMED TAQI REPLACED, IRAQI NEWS AGENCY REPORTS




MOBIL <MOB> TO RESTRUCTURE EXPLORATION UNIT
    NEW YORK, March 12 - 
Mobil Oil Corp said it will restructure its Dallas-based Mobil
Exploration and Producing Services Inc operations April one, to
provide stronger technological support to its U.S. and overseas
operations. Mobil said the operation will consist of two new units,
Technical Services and Application Technology, along with the existing
Drilling and New Exploration Ventures groups. It said R.C. Mills,
president and general manager of its Exploration and Producing
Southeast Inc, has been named vice president and general manager of
the new operation reporting to P.J. Hoenmans, president of its
Exploration and Producing division. Reuter 

U.K. OIL REVENUE FORECAST TO FALL IN 1987/88
    LONDON, March 17 - 
The U.K. Government forecasts that oil revenues will fall to four
billion stg in the fiscal year 1987/88, from 4.75 billion in 1986/87
and 11.5 billion in 1985/86. The forecast came in the Treasury's
Financial Statement and Budget Report issued after the Chancellor of
the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's annual budget statement to parliament.
The government is assuming the price of oil will average 15 dlrs a
barrel, in line with its earlier forecasts, and its oil revenue
calculation is based on an exchange rate remaining close to current
levels, the Treasury document said. The Treasury said the 1987/88 oil
revenue shortfall will reflect the oil price fall of 1986, as North
Sea corporation tax is paid after a time lag. The statement calculated
that a one dlr a barrel difference in oil prices this year will change
revenue by about 350 mln stg for the current fiscal year, and 400 mln
stg in a full year. Oil production is forecast to fall slightly in
1987, according to the statement. A change in one mln tonnes in
production would alter revenue by about 45 mln stg in 1987/88 and 50
mln stg in a full year, it added. Total general government receipts
for 1986/87 are now estimated to be 159.2 billion stg, 2.75 billion
more than the 1986 Budget forecasts and above the Autumn Statement
forecasts, despite a shortfall of 1.25 billlion in oil receipts.
Additional non-North Sea corporation tax of 1.75 billion stg and VAT
of 750 mln stg account for the bulk of the overshoot. Total general
government receipts were forecast to rise to 168.8 billion stg in
fiscal 1987/88, and among the main items, besides diminishing oil
revenues, were projected income tax of 40 billion stg, up from 38.4
billion in the current year. Non-North Sea corporation tax is forecast
to bring in 13.5 billion stg in 1987/88, after the revised 11.2
billion in 1986/87, and VAT revenue should amount to 23.3 billion,
compared with upwardly revised estimated 21.5 billion this fiscal
year. The general government expenditure for the coming fiscal year is
expected to total 173.5 billion stg, up from a revised 164.9 billion
in the current year. A repayment of 800 mln on public corporations'
market and overseas borrowings is forecast to bring the total Public
Sector Borrowing Requirement down to 3.9 billion stg in 1987/88, from
this year's revised 4.1 billion, the Treasury said. REUTER 

UNOCAL RAISES MOST CRUDE PRICES 50 CTS, TODAY, WTI AT 17.50 DLRS




BRAZIL CANCELS OIL PURCHASE FROM SAUDI ARABIA
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 12 - 
Brazil's state-oil company, Petrobras, cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude
oil purchase from Saudi Arabia after the Saudis refused to accept
credit guarantees from the Bank of Brazil, a Petrobras official said.
Export director Carlos Santana told a press conference the Saudis were
the first suppliers of oil to impose such conditions after Brazil's
decision to halt interest payment of its commercial debts last month.
The shipment of 2.2 mln barrels represents two days of oil consumption
in Brazil. But Santana said if the Saudis change their minds and
decide to respect the terms of the contract, then Petrobras will lift
the order to cancel the shipment. Santana said if the Saudis do not
accept Brazil's terms by Monday then Petrobras will negotiate
elsewhere. "Petrobras has been Saudi Arabia's traditional client since
1955. If they do not accept our conditions now, it will be much better
for us, because with the market prices more or less the same, buying
from Iraq and China is an advantage," he said. Iraq and China have
barter deals with Brazil, importing Brazilian goods in exchange for
oil, but the Saudis buy nothing from Brazil, he said. Santana said
despite a strike threat by oil industry workers and a two-week
stoppage by Brazilian seamen, Petrobras oil stocks are "reasonably
balanced." Saudi Arabia is Brazil's second biggest oil supplier, with
an average 115,000 bpd. Iraq is the main supplier with 235,000 bpd.
China comes third, with 58,000 bpd. "If the Saudis wish to stop our
trade relationship, fine, I am sure that if they do, we will be
getting dozens of offers from elsewhere," Santana added. Reuter 

SHELL CANADA RAISES CRUDE PRICES BY 64 CANADIAN CTS/BBL TODAY AT EDMONTON




OIL PRICES SAID NOW BASED ON FUTURES PRICE
     SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, March 31 - 
Energy futures now set the standard for oil pricing, said Arnold
Safer, president of The Energy Futures Group Inc, a consulting firm.
"Petroleum futures trading at the New York Mercantile Exchange
literally set spot market prices in the U.S.," he said, adding that
some oil products sellers now offer contracts based on a daily average
of NYMEX prices. He also said that petroleum futures are a major
market for oil companies as well as for commodity traders. His remarks
were made at the National Petroleum Refiners Association. Reuter 

AMOCO'S FIRST SOUTH CHINA SEA EXPLORATORY WELL FLOWS 2,240 BARRELS OF OIL DAILY




VENEZUELA TO LEND OIL TO ECUADOR FOR EXPORT
    Caracas, march 11 - 
venezuela will supply ecuador with an as yet undetermined amount of
crude oil to help it meet export commitments, seriously affected by
last week's earthquake, energy and mines minister arturo hernandez
grisanti said. He gave few details about the deal, but said a crude
oil loan agreement will be made between state oil companies petroleos
de venezuela (pdvsa) and ecuador's cepe. Ecuador was forced to suspend
oil exports for an expected four months after an earthquake damaged a
pipeline. Oil accounts for 60 per cent of its export income. Hernandez
was speaking to reporters at miraflores palace on the results of talks
with ecuador's deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite, who
arrived here last night. "the volume lent to ecuador would be
discounted from its opec quota and would not affect venezuela's," he
said. "we would from august on produce our own quota and sell the
additional amounts that ecuador would be repaying us," he said. He did
not elaborate on the quota arrangements but did say ecuador would
notify opec by telex that venezuela would be lending it a certain
amount over so many days. Venezuela's opec output quota is currently
1.495 million barrels a day, and ecuador's has been set at 210,000
bpd. Reuter 

EARLY MARCH OPEC OUTPUT SEEN WELL BELOW CEILING
    LONDON, March 5 - 
OPEC crude oil output in the first few days of March was running at
about 14.7 mln bpd, down from a 16 mln bpd average for February and
well below the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling the group adopted in December, a
Reuter survey shows. The figures were polled by Reuters correspondents
from oil traders, industry executives and analysts in Europe, the
Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia. They back recent
statements by OPEC ministers that the group is producing within its
ceiling to support the return to a fixed price system, which came into
effect last month. OPEC output for the whole of February was about
200,000 bpd above the ceiling, largely because of overproduction by
the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, the figures show. The UAE,
together with the much smaller producer Ecuador, was also producing
above quota in the first days of March, the survey reveals. But such
overproduction was compensated for by a sharp fall in Saudi Arabian
output, together with Iran"s inability to export as much as its quota
allows. Iraq rejected its OPEC quota of 1.466 mln bpd and produced
1.75 mln bpd in February and early March, the figures showed. Saudi
output -- excluding movements into stocks -- fell to 3.1 mln bpd in
early March from 3.5 mln bpd in February, against a 4.133 mln bpd
quota. The Saudi figures include a 200,000 bpd share of Neutral Zone
production. Kuwait, which has consistently denied quota violations,
was estimated to be pumping 1.4 mln bpd in February and 1.15 in early
March -- both figures including 200,000 bpd as its share of Neutral
Zone output -- against its 948,000 bpd quota. Reports of customer
resistance to fixed prices set by some OPEC states were reflected in
output from Qatar and Nigeria, both substantially under quota in
February and early March. Qatar's February output was 230,000 bpd, and
this fell to 180,000 bpd in early March compared with its 285,000 bpd
quota. Industry sources say Japanese buyers are resisting Qatar"s
prices and Gulf Arab oil states have pledged to make up for any
shortfall in sales which a fellow Gulf state suffers. Nigeria's early
March output was about one mln bpd, down from 1.14 mln bpd in February
and its quota of 1.238 mln bpd. Industry sources say Nigeria's
customers believe its Bonny grades are overpriced compared with
compatible Brent crudes from the U.K. North Sea. Country-by-country
production figures are as follows, in mln bpd - COUNTRY CURRENT
FEBRUARY QUOTA ALGERIA 0.64 0.64 0.635 ECUADOR 0.26 0.26 0.210 GABON
0.15 0.15 0.152 INDONESIA 1.16 1.16 1.133 IRAN 1.80 2.20 2.255 IRAQ
1.75 1.75 1.466 KUWAIT 1.15 1.40 0.948 LIBYA 0.95 0.95 0.948 NIGERIA
1.00 1.14 1.238 QATAR 0.18 0.23 0.285 SAUDI ARABIA 3.10 3.50 4.133 UAE
1.10 1.15 0.902 VENEZUELA 1.50 1.50 1.495 TOTAL 14.7 16.0 15.8 REUTER
Reuter 

SAUDI ARABIA DECIDES TO ACCEPT BRAZIL CREDIT
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 13 - 
Saudi Arabia has lifted the condition it imposed on the sale of oil to
Brazil and will accept Banco do Brasil's credit guarantees, state-oil
company Petrobras said in a statement. Petrobras cancelled a 40 mln
dlr crude oil purchase from the Saudis yesterday, after they refused
to accept a letter of credit from the Bank of Brazil, demanding
guarantees from leading international banks. It advised the Saudis the
company would negotiate oil purchases elsewhere unless they changed
their mind by Monday. The 2.2 mln barrels shipment will be made by the
Saudis on March 24 as scheduled, the statement said. Under a 125,000
bpd contract signed in February the Saudis agreed to supply oil to
Brazil until June. Reuter 

DIAMOND SHAMROCK (DIA) CUTS CRUDE PRICES
    NEW YORK, FEB 26 - 
Diamond Shamrock Corp said that effective today it had cut its
contract prices for crude oil by 1.50 dlrs a barrel. The reduction
brings its posted price for West Texas Intermediate to 16.00 dlrs a
barrel, the copany said. "The price reduction today was made in the
light of falling oil product prices and a weak crude oil market," a
company spokeswoman said. Diamond is the latest in a line of U.S. oil
companies that have cut its contract, or posted, prices over the last
two days citing weak oil markets. Reuter 

TRICO <TRO> GETS CHINESE CONTRACT
    LOS ANGELES, March 20 - 
Trico Industries Inc said it has received a six mln dlr contract to
supply hydraulic lift equipment for heavy crude oil production for the
Chinese Ministry of Petroleum Industry. The company said the equipment
is for use in the Laiohe oilfield 350 miles northeast of Peking and
will equip a 140-well program. Reuter 

LAWSON OIL TAX BREAKS TO HELP NEW FIELDS - REVENUE
    LONDON, March 17 - 
Two new U.K. Tax relief measures for oil producers, announced today,
are aimed at encouraging developments in the North Sea to go ahead and
boost opportunities for the offshore supplies industry, the Inland
Revenue said in a post-budget statement. Earlier, Chancellor of the
Exchequer Nigel Lawson announced in his annual budget to Parliament
that from today, companies will be allowed to offset up to 10 pct of
qualifying development expenditure on certain future oil fields
against Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT). To date, full relief was allowed
for expenditure on an individual field itself, when its income stream
began, but was not immediately available against other development
expenditure, the statement said. The new relief will apply to fields
outside the southern basin for which development consent is first
given on or after today, and will improve the post-tax economics of
new developments and encourage companies to proceed with project which
might have been delayed, it said. Lawson also announced that he would
henceforth allow certain expenditure on oil related research which
does not at present qualify for PRT relief to be offset against PRT
liability. This means oil-related expenditure in the U.K. Or on the
U.K. Continental shelf, which has not become allowable in a particular
field within three years of being incurred, to be allowed against PRT
liability in any oil field, the Inland Revenue said. This brings the
scope of PRT relief for research costs more in line with corporation
tax relief measures, and is planned to encourage general research into
ways of reducing field development costs, it said. In due course, the
industry should benefit by over 100 mln stg a year, it calculated. The
Inland Revenue statement also included other technical measures that
Lawson did not comment on in his budget speech. These included
measures to allow companies to balance their shares of PRT-exempt oil
allowances through reallocation in two past periods of allowance
utilisation. Tidier rules on incorrectly allowed PRT expenditure
reliefs were announced, while there were also ammendments on rules on
corporation tax and Advance Corporation Tax relating to the so-called
"ring fence" of activities in the U.K. And its continental shelf. The
Finance Bill will have provisions for the implementation of measures
announced in November, it said. Gareth Lewis Davies, a North Sea
expert with stockbrokers Wood Mackenzie and Co Inc in Edinburgh,
thought the two reliefs on PRT would help the depressed offshore
industry. He said the 10 pct cross field allowance relief would favour
chances that development of smaller North Sea fields such Osprey, Don
and Arbroath would be brought forward. Early development of the larger
Miller and Bruce oil fields might also be encouraged, he said. Lewis
Davies said the measure might also aid the offshore construction
industry, which suffered a huge amount of lay-offs under the price
slump of more than 50 pct last year. He pointed out that the relief
only applies to the development of new fields outside the Southern
Basin. This means more jobs could be created, as the fields in the
central and northern sectors of the North Sea are deeper than in the
south and thus have greater capital and labour requirements as the
waters are deeper than in the south. He said the PRT relief for
certain research expenditure would help fundamental research in the
oil industry, although the benefits of this research would not be seen
for several year. REUTER 

PANCANADIAN TO SELL NORTH SEA PROPERTIES, UNIT TO WHITEHALL FOR CASH




DUPONT <DD> UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES
    NEW YORK, March 9 - 
Conoco Inc, a subsidiary of DuPont Corp, said it was increasing its
contract prices for crude oil between 10 cts and one dlr a barrel,
effective today. Conoco said the increase brings its price for the
U.S. benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate to 17.50 dlrs a barrel,
up one dlr. South Louisiana Sweet, also up one dlr, is now 17.85 dlrs.
West Texas Sour was up 10 cts to 16.60 dlrs a barrel. Conoco was the
last company to raise prices following a series of increases initiated
last week by Sun Co <SUN>, which reversed the posted price cuts made
at the end of February. Reuter 

ECUADOR TO ASK OPEC TO RAISE EXPORT QUOTA
    CARACAS, March 11 - 
Ecuador will ask OPEC to raise its oil export quota by 100,000 barrels
per day to 310,000 to compensate for lost output due to last week's
earthquake, deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite said. Santos
Alvite, who arrived in Caracas last night to discuss an aid plan for
Ecuador, did not say when the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC) would be approached. The additional output would be
related to plans now under discussion for Venezuela and Mexico to lend
Ecuador crude while it repairs a pipeline damaged by the quake.
Earlier, Venezuelan Energy and Mines Minister Aturo Hernandez Grisanti
said his country would supply an unspecified part of Ecuador's export
commitments. But Santos Alvite told reporters he hoped a first cargo
of 300,000 barrels could leave Maracaibo this weekend to supply
refineries near Guayaquil. He added Ecuador also wanted to make up for
50,000 bpd it shipped to Caribbean destinations. Mexico might supply
Ecuador's South Korean market. Ecuador may be unable to export oil for
up to five months due to extensive damage to a 25 mile stretch of
pipeline linking jungle oilfields to the Pacific port of Balao. REUTER


API PRESIDENT SEES OPTIONS TO AVERT OIL CRISIS
    NEW YORK, March 9 - 
American Petroleum Institute President Charles DiBona said no options
should be rejected to combat growing U.S. dependence on foreign oil.
"No action should be ruled out--import fees or quotas, floor prices,
tax incentives or other alternatives--while a national dialogue on the
issue continues," DiBona said at a paper institute conference in New
York today. DiBona said there is no unanimity within the industry on
how to stimulate energy production but there is consensus on removing
several government policies that hinder investments in new prospects.
DiBona said the windfall profit tax should be abolished immediately
and current proposals for increased environmental regulations on acid
rain and waste disposal should be not adopted. He also suggested that
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska should be opened up for
leasing to oil companies, DiBona said. "This is a battle the industry
cannot afford to lose if the nation is to continue to benefit from
Alaskan oil," DiBona said. Since 1986 U.S. oil production has fallen
while consumption rose and that has raised dependence on imported oil,
particularly from OPEC, DiBona said. Reuter 

PETRO-CANADA TO DRILL TWO TERRA NOVA TEST WELLS
    ST. JOHN'S, Newfoundland, March 9 - 
Petro-Canada, Canada's state-owned oil company, said it will drill two
delineation wells this summer at the Terra Nova oil field offshore
Newfoundland. Evaluation of test results and preliminary engineering
work should put Petro-Canada in a position to propose a development
plan for the Terra Nova field in 1988, the company said. Depending on
time required for regulatory approvals, construction could begin in
1989, with first oil production as early as 1991, Petro-Canada said.
"We have a high degree of confidence that the western portion of the
(Terra Nova) field contains at least 11 mln cubic meters of
recoverable oil, or more than 70 mln barrels, and that we could
produce it economicly using a floating production system," Petro-
Canada said. The Terra-Nova field, lying 350 kilometers east of St.
John's and 35 kilometers southeast of Hibernia field, was discovered
by Petro-Canada in 1984. "We've had encouraging results from the
eastern portion of the field, and we hope this summer's drilling will
prove up additional reserves there," the company said. Petro-Canada
believes Terra Nova field is a good commercial prospect and the
company wants to move some of those resources towards development so
it can start generating a return on investments, Petro-Canada said.
Petro-Canada, which will act as operator of the two wells, has a 75
pct interest in the western portion of Graven block of the Terra Nova
field and a 26 pct interest in the field's East Flank block, a company
spokesman said later. Other field participants include Canterra Energy
Ltd, Mobil Oil Canada Ltd, Gulf Canada Resources Inc, ICG Resources
Ltd, Trillium Exploration Corp and general partnership PAREX. Petro-
Canada estimates reserves in the Terra Nova field's Graven block of
between 68 mln and 70 mln barrels of oil, company spokesman Bob
Foulkes said from Petro-Canada's Calgary office. Combined reserves for
Graven Block and the field's East Flank block are estimated between 70
mln and 130 mln barrels, he added. Petro-Canada expects to spend about
500 mln Canadian dlrs to bring the field to production by about 1991,
and the development budget could double if the company builds a
production system combining both blocks in the field, he said. Petro-
Canada estimates the Terra Nova field Graven block would produce
between 25,000 and 26,000 barrels average daily production, with a
production system that would have maximum capacity of 40,000 bpd,
company spokesman Foulkes said in answer to a query. The company
estimates a production system combining both Graven and East Flank
blocks in the Terra Nova field could produce about 45,000 bpd average
daily production, he said. Reuter 

SAUDI SUCCESS SEEN IN CURBING OPEC PRODUCTION
    HOUSTON, March 3 - 
Saudi Arabia will succeed in pressuring other members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to stay within their
production quotas, said Morgan Stanley Group managing director John
Wellemeyer. Wellemeyer, speaking to reporters at an offshore oil
engineering conference, also said he expected OPEC nations to attempt
to hold prices under 20 dlrs a barrel for several years to keep
industrial demand for residual fuel oil strong. "Over the next few
weeks I think you'll see a concerted effort by the Saudis to get
production down," Wellemeyer said. "The Saudis are committed to that
price level (of 18 dlrs a barrel) and are willing to make it happen
again," he said. In recent weeks, oil prices fell to the 16 to 17 dlrs
a barrel level on market reports of some OPE members producing above
their quota, pushing total OPEC production to 15.8 mln barrels per
day. But prices rebounded today, with April U.S. crude prices up about
one dlr to over 17 dlrs a barrel on a belief Saudi Arabia is
attempting to curb OPEC output. Wellemeyer said that sharp declines in
U.S. oil production could push demand for OPEC oil above 20 mln
barrels per day as early as 1989 and up to 24 mln barrels per day by
1993. Although the projected increases in demand for OPEC oil should
strengthen world prices, Wellemeyer said he believed the organization
would hold its official price below 20 dlrs a barrel for some time to
prevent residual fuel users from switching to natural gas supplies.
The interfuel swing market accounts for about eight mln barrels a day,
or 18 pct of the world demand for oil. Reuter 

MALAYSIA TO CUT OIL OUTPUT FURTHER, TRADERS SAY
    SINGAPORE, March 18 - 
Malaysia's state oil company Petronas will cut oil production to
420,000 barrels per day (bpd) from May 1, trade sources said. Malaysia
cut its 510,000 bpd target output by 10 pct last September to support
Opec moves to boost prices, and the latest cut would reduce output by
17.5 pct from 1986's target level. Petronas said in February that
Malaysia would maintain its 10 pct production cutback until mid-1987.
However, the Finance Ministry said in its annual report that
Malaysia's crude oil output was expected to rise to an average 510,000
bpd in 1987. The ministry's forecast assumed average 1987 crude prices
at 13 dlrs/barrel (bbl), but prices have risen enough to permit
further production cutbacks, the sources said. Malaysia's benchmark
Tapis blend fetched above 18 dlrs/bbl this year against a low of 10.50
dlrs/bbl in July, they said. Traders said further reductions by
Malaysia would add to the tight spot availabilities of Asian grades
caused by reduced Indonesian and Chinese crude output. The cutback
will also help Malaysia maintain prices, as there is concern some
buyers want to reduce term purchases due to the availability of
cheaper alternatives, the sources said. In addition to term sales,
Petronas has been offering two to three 400,000 bbl spot cargoes of
Malaysian crude each month for sale through tender, the sources said.
However, this practice is likely to dwindle given the reduced scale of
production, they said. 

TALKING POINT/OIL SERVICES TURNAROUND SEEN
    NEW YORK, March 11 - 
The oil services industry is on the verge of a recovery because of
rising crude prices, oil industry analysts said. The analysts, who
issued buy recommendations on some stocks, said the recovery in oil
services should begin in the second half of 1987, after drilling
activity bottoms out in the first half, and continue into the next
decade. "People, however, cannot afford to wait for drilling to go up
to start buying," said Sandi Haber Sweeney, senior research analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein and Co Inc. Among the recommended buys are
Schlumberger Ltd <SLB>, Halliburton Co <HAL>, Dresser Industries <DI>,
Baker International <BKO>, and McDermott International Inc <MDR>,
which may be the target of a takeover by Harold Simmons, a Dallas-
based investor. Analysts said although major oil companies are
increasing exploration and development overseas, they expect the
pickup in oil services will begin in the U.S. "Activity in the U.S. is
so depressed it should move up faster," said Vishnu Sharp of Goldman
Sachs. The number of active oil drilling rigs in the U.S. was 766 last
week compared with 1,212 rigs one year ago, Huges Tool Co <HT> figures
show. The average number of working rigs in the U.S. for 1987 is
projected at 978 versus 964 in 1986, according to Ike Kerridge, vice
president of stockholder relations at Hughes Tool. "The first
significant pickup in drilling activity will occur in the second half
of 1988," Kerridge said. Overseas drilling activity is expected to
follow a similar pattern, Kerridge said. "Halliburton is the best
value," said Jeffrey Freedman, vice president at Smith Barney, Harris
and Upham Inc, adding the company controls the greatest amount of
liquidity of common stock market value, is diversifed in non-oil field
businesess, and has the lowest multiple of stock price to operating
cash flow including debt. Schlumberger is Freedman's second favorite
oil service stock. "Schlumberger is expected to continue to be the
dominant technical leader in the industry," Freedman said.
"Schlumberger's management shift, asset restructuring, including a
pending merger of Fairchild Semiconductor, and its considerable cash
horde sets the stage for the company to maximize its significant
industry advantage and capitalize on the project upturn in exploration
and development activity," according to a report by George Gaspar,
first vice president at Robert W. Baird and Co Inc. Gaspar estimates
earnings per share for Schlumberger at 25 cts for 1987 and one to 1.75
dlrs in 1988 compared with 20 cts in 1986 excluding a fourth quarter
special charge of 1.87 billion dlrs. Bernstein's Sandi Sweeney is
recommending a group of oil service companies and said choosing among
them is difficult. Her favorite is Baker International, which is
involved in a possible merger with Hughes Tool Co. Dresser Industries
will also benefit from the recovery but possibly not as much as other
companies because it is not a pure service company, Sweeney said.
Dresser is expected to improve profitability owing to cost reductions
and streamlined operations, including the sale and leaseback of its
headquarters, said Swarup. Reuter 

HUGHES' U.S. RIG COUNT RISES TO 784
    HOUSTON, March 23 -  
U.S. drilling activity rose last week with the number of working
rotary rigs up by 23 to 784, against 1,063 working rigs one year ago,
Hughes Tool Co. said. The improvement was the first increase this year
in the weekly rig count, which had dropped steadily since early
January when a total of 962 rotary rigs were working. Among individual
states, Texas and Oklahoma reported the biggest gains in drilling last
week with increases of 21 and 11, respectively. California and
Louisiana were each up by three and Wyoming gained two additional
working rigs. Hughes Tool said it counted a total of 692 rigs drilling
on land, 74 rigs active offshore and 18 drilling in inland waters. In
Canada, the rig count was up by two to 183, against 324 one year ago.
Reuter 

COLOMBIAN OIL EXPORTS NOT AFFECTED BY QUAKE
    BOGOTA, March 6 - 
Colombian oil installations were not damaged by an earthquake which
shook Ecuador and southern Colombia last night and there are no plans
to suspend exports, a spokesman for the state-run oil company
Ecopetrol said. He said no damage was reported, unlike in Ecuador
where indefinite force majeure was declared on crude exports. Colombia
currently produces about 360,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude.
Exports in january totalled 123,000 bpd. The quake, which in Colombia
measured between 6.5 and seven on the 12-point international Mercalli
scale, caused panic among residents but no injuries were reported.
Reuter 

LOWER REFINERY OPERATIONS SEEN PRODUCING PROFITS
    SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, March 30 - 
U.S. refiners will have to reduce operations if they want to be
profitable this year, said industry officials attending the National
Petroleum Refiners Association meeting here. "If the refining sector
can discipline itself to refine about 12 mln barrels of crude oil a
day, we have a chance to pull down inventories to acceptable levels by
the second quarter, said Archie Dunham, executive vice president of
petroluem products at Conoco Inc "If not, the industry will have a
tough 1987," he added. Last week's American Petroleum Institute report
said that U.S. refining capacity rose three pct to 78.7 pct of
capacity, with crude oil runs at 12.2 mln barrels per day for the week
ended March 20. The API said that with the higher crude oil runs,
distillate and gasoline inventories were sharply above year-ago
levels. Gasoline stocks were at 245.6 mln barrels, some 17.2 mln
barrels above year-ago levels. Distillate stocks, at 108.7 mln
barrels, are 10.9 mln barrels above last year's level, the API said.
Henry Rosenberg, chairman of Crown Central Petroleum Corp <CNP> told
Reuters that unless refining and marketing return to profitability,
oil companies will have to rely on downstream operations to produce an
acceptable level of earnings. "The jump in refining capacity is a
concern if it continues," said Kenneth Buckler, executive vice
president of refining and marketing at <Total Petroleum Co>, a U.S.
subsidiary of Cie Francaise Des Petroles of France. Refineries should
operate near 75 pct of capacity given the current level of demand but
the operating level should increase as gasoline demand picks up in the
next quarter, Buckler said. Dunham said the potential operable
capacity of U.S. refineries should also be cut about 500,000 barrels
of crude per day. "I expect to see the shutdown of more small
refineries over the next five years," he said, adding that these
facilities refine between 10,000 and 30,000 barrels of crude oil per
day. The API said U.S. operations have the capacity to refine 15.6 mln
bpd of crude. Reuter 

REAGAN SAYS U.S. NEEDS TO LESSEN OIL IMPORTS
    WASHINGTON, March 19 - 
President Reagan said the United States must do more to lessen its
reliance on imported oil. President Reagan said during a nationally
televised news conference that the rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil
is a problem that the administration is studying. "We have to study
this more," Reagan said. "This is why we increased the Strategic
(Petroleum) Reserve, but we have to do more," he said. Reagan said his
administration has already proposed deregulating natural gas and
eliminating the windfall profits tax on crude oil production. However,
he complained that Congress had not yet approved those measures. The
Department of Energy earlier this week released a report that warned
of rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil imports at a time when domestic
production is declining. It suggested options for the administration
to consider, but made no specific recommendations. Reuter 

MOST JAPAN FIRMS NOT RENEWING IRAN TERM CONTRACTS
    TOKYO, March 12 - 
Most Japanese companies have decided not to renew term contracts to
lift Iranian crude oil because spot prices remain considerably lower
than OPEC's official levels, industry sources said. They said a cargo
of the Mideast benchmark crude Dubai traded yesterday at 16.50 dlrs a
barrel, compared to its official price of 17.42 dlrs. Only one
Japanese company has renewed its term contract for Iranian crude oil
for the second quarter, the sources said. The sources said Japanese
companies had been lifting a total of about 185,000 barrels per day
(bpd) of Iranian crude under term contracts, but only one firm has
agreed to lift in the second quarter. It is lifting just 10,000 to
15,000 bpd. They said this move could inspire Iran to offer discounts
on cargoes loading in April, but the likelihood of discounts depended
largely on the levels of spot prices. "If the spot price of Dubai goes
above 17.30 dlrs we would probably buy Iranian crude at the official
price," one Japanese refiner said. "We don't intend to put pressure on
them," he added. Buyers have little incentive to renew contracts to
lift oil at official OPEC prices while spot prices on all grades are
considerably lower, oil traders said. They said if spot prices move
higher there will be no problem finding OPEC crude to purchase at the
official prices. Qatar has chartered floating storage for its crude
oil after finding no buyers at official prices in March. The problem
is likely to recur in April, adding to that country's surplus. The
traders added that Iraq had dissociated itself from OPEC's December
production agreement, while agreeing to the fixed prices. But oil
analysts said if OPEC keeps group output close to its first-half 1987
ceiling of 15.8 mln bpd, supply and demand would be balanced by the
end of the second quarter. They also said if OPEC holds its official
price structure based on a reference price of 18 dlrs, spot price
fluctuations should be limited to a 16.50 to 17.20 dlrs range for
Dubai and a 17 to 18 dlrs range for the North Sea's Brent blend. One
Japanese refiner said, "At the moment there's a lot of pressure on
OPEC, particularly on Qatar. But if they hold out there will be no
problem, and I'm beginning to trust their ability." Nigerian oil
minister and OPEC president Rilwanu Lukman told a news conference in
Lagos yesterday, "Nigeria and all member countries of OPEC remain
determined to uphold the December agreement by adhering strictly to
their various quotas and official selling prices." He said OPEC
believed consumers had drawn heavily on stocks of both crude oil and
refined products, reducing them to levels well below this time last
year. He said consumers would soon return to the market in search of
crude. A Japanese refiner said, "The European and U.S. Markets are
beginning to look better so OPEC might be quite lucky." 

LATIN OIL PRODUCERS TO MEET IN CARACAS
    CARACAS, March 25 - 
Five regional oil producing nations will gather in Caracas tommorrow
for a two-day meeting expected to center on ways to combat proposals
for a U.S. tax on imported petroleum, the Venezuela's ministry of
energy and mines said. Oil ministers from Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago,
Ecuador and Venezuela will be on hand for the fifth meeting of the
informal group of Latin American and Caribbean Petroleum Exporters,
formed in 1983, it said. Colombia will also attend for the first time,
as an observer nation, the ministry said. Energy and Mines Minister
Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said the conference has no set agenda but
one entire session Friday will be devoted to proposals for a tax on
imported oil. Two of the group's members, Venezuela and Mexico, are
second and third largest foreign suppliers of oil to the United
States, respectively, following Canada. Venezuela, concerned about the
effect such a tax would have on its exports, undertook a diplomatic
push to coordinate strategy against such measures. In February,
Canadian Energy Minister Marcel Masse was invited to Caracas for talks
with Hernandez on proposals for an oil import tax. Reuter 

OPEC MAY HAVE TO MEET TO FIRM PRICES - ANALYSTS
    NEW YORK, Feb 26 - 
OPEC may be forced to meet before a scheduled June session to
readdress its production cutting agreement if the organization wants
to halt the current slide in oil prices, oil industry analysts said.
"The movement to higher oil prices was never to be as easy as OPEC
thought. They may need an emergency meeting to sort out the problems,"
said Daniel Yergin, director of Cambridge Energy Research Associates,
CERA. Analysts and oil industry sources said the problem OPEC faces is
excess oil supply in world oil markets. "OPEC's problem is not a price
problem but a production issue and must be addressed in that way,"
said Paul Mlotok, oil analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. He said the
market's earlier optimism about OPEC and its ability to keep
production under control have given way to a pessimistic outlook that
the organization must address soon if it wishes to regain the
initiative in oil prices. But some other analysts were uncertain that
even an emergency meeting would address the problem of OPEC production
above the 15.8 mln bpd quota set last December. "OPEC has to learn
that in a buyers market you cannot have deemed quotas, fixed prices
and set differentials," said the regional manager for one of the major
oil companies who spoke on condition that he not be named. "The market
is now trying to teach them that lesson again," he added. David T.
Mizrahi, editor of Mideast reports, expects OPEC to meet before June,
although not immediately. However, he is not optimistic that OPEC can
address its principal problems. "They will not meet now as they try to
take advantage of the winter demand to sell their oil, but in late
March and April when demand slackens," Mizrahi said. But Mizrahi said
that OPEC is unlikely to do anything more than reiterate its agreement
to keep output at 15.8 mln bpd." Analysts said that the next two
months will be critical for OPEC's ability to hold together prices and
output. "OPEC must hold to its pact for the next six to eight weeks
since buyers will come back into the market then," said Dillard
Spriggs of Petroleum Analysis Ltd in New York. But Bijan Moussavar-
Rahmani of Harvard University's Energy and Environment Policy Center
said that the demand for OPEC oil has been rising through the first
quarter and this may have prompted excesses in its production. "Demand
for their (OPEC) oil is clearly above 15.8 mln bpd and is probably
closer to 17 mln bpd or higher now so what we are seeing characterized
as cheating is OPEC meeting this demand through current production,"
he told Reuters in a telephone interview. Reuter 

SAUDI BUSINESSMEN TO DISCUSS PRIVATE SECTOR
    ABHA, Saudi Arabia, March 15 - 
Saudi Arabian business leaders assembled for a conference aimed at
thrashing out problems facing the private sector of the kingdom's oil-
dependent economy. The meeting of some 500 top businessmen from across
Saudi Arabia comes at a time of guarded optimism in industry and
commerce following the OPEC pact to boost world oil prices. The four-
day conference in this resort town, high in the mountains above the
Tihamah plain stretching to the Red Sea, has been organised by Saudi
Arabia's chambers of commerce. Finance Minister Mohammed Ali Abal-
Khail and Commerce Minister Suleiman Abdulaziz al-Salim will attend
the first day. Bankers and businessmen said the conference will air
problems facing commerce and industry after last year's slide in oil
prices and examine ways to promote higher investment in a private
sector sorely short of finance. Government planners have long
recognised that Saudi Arabia, the world's largest crude exporter,
needs to foster private enterprise to diversify its oil-based economy.
The fledgling private sector was hard hit by the Middle East recession
as early as 1983 and several big manufacturing and trading companies
ran into problems repaying loans. Renewed optimism this year stems
largely from the accord reached by OPEC last December to curb oil
output and boost prices to a benchmark level of 18 dlrs per barrel.
With oil prices recovering, Saudi Arabia went ahead at the turn of the
year with long-delayed budget plans incorporating a 52.7 billion riyal
deficit to be bridged by drawing down foreign reserves. The simple act
of publishing a budget restored a measure of confidence to the
business community. Some share prices have risen by more than 35 pct
since last November, while banks are generally reporting a slowdown in
the number of new non-performing loans. But not all bankers are
convinced. One senior corporate finance manager in Riyadh said: "Banks
are still reluctant to lend ... There is certainly more optimism in
the air, but I am not sure if it is firmly based." Some businessmen
and bankers point out that government spending is still under tight
control and the non-oil economy may still be contracting. Capital
expenditure on large projects has been cut sharply. A U.S. Embassy
report on Saudi Arabia published just before the budget said: "While
industrialisation has continued to be one of the government's highest
priorities, the recession, the payments problem and the lack of
financing have reduced Saudi and foreign investor interest in
industry." It is the lack of fresh investment that is expected to be a
major issue among the businessmen gathered here. Official figures show
the number of new licences for industrial ventures fell 24 pct in the
six months to March 1986, compared with the same period in 1985.
Lending by the Saudi Industrial Development Fund, a major source of
industry backing, has fallen steadily since 1983. Trading companies
have also been hit, some caught with huge inventories of construction
equipment as recession bit. Some firms laid off workers and cut
bloated inventories. Others have effectively been liquidated. A few
have reached agreement with bankers to extend debt repayments. The
latest rescheduling is for the shipping-to-hotels conglomerate REDEC.
Its negotiators have just initialled a draft accord to restructure
payments on 1.3 billion riyals of bank debt. Bankers and businessmen
said the conference was also likely to discuss the apparent reluctance
of U.S. And British firms to step up investment in the kingdom. A
British government delegation has just left Riyadh after holding
preliminary talks on ways of offsetting the huge Saudi outlay on a
defence contract to supply 132 fighter aircraft worth five billion
stg. REUTER 

MARATHON PETROLEUM REDUCES CRUDE POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, Feb 26 - 
Marathon Petroleum Co said it reduced the contract price it will pay
for all grades of crude oil one dlr a barrel, effective today. The
decrease brings Marathon's posted price for both West Texas
Intermediate and West Texas Sour to 16.50 dlrs a bbl. The South
Louisiana Sweet grade of crude was reduced to 16.85 dlrs a bbl. The
company last changed its crude postings on Jan 12. Reuter 

INDIA GETS 140 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN
    WASHINGTON, March 12 - 
The World Bank said it approved a 140 mln dlr loan for India to help
lessen that country's dependence on imported oil and spur development
of its own petroleum resources. The bank said the loan will be used to
boost production by injecting gas in the partially depleted Assam oil
fields and to assist exploration in other areas, including drilling 10
exploratory wells. The bank said the recipient of the 20-year loan
will be Oil India Ltd (OIL), which is the smaller of two public Indian
petroleum exploration and production companies. Reuter 

 DIAMOND SHAMROCK <DIA> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS
    New York, March 12 - 
Diamond Shamrock said it raised the contract price it will pay for
crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The increase brings the
company's posted price for the benchmark grade, West Texas
Intermediate, to 17.50 dlrs/bbl. Diamond Shamrock last changed its
postings on March 4. Reuter 

ECUADOR TO EXPORT NO OIL FOR 4 MONTHS, OFFICIAL
    QUITO, March 9 - 
The suspension of Ecuador's crude oil shipments after an earthquake
cut an oil pipeline will last at least four months, a senior Energy
Ministry official said. The official said Ecuador could resume exports
after repairing a 40 km section of the 510 km pipeline, which links
jungle oil fields at Lago Agrio to Balao on the Pacific coast. It
would take about 100 mln U.S. Dlrs to repair the pipeline, the
official, who did not want to be named, told Reuters. Ecuador had
enough oil to meet domestic demand for about 35 days and would have to
import crude to supplement stocks. The earthquake last Thursday night
registered six on the 12-point international Mercalli scale. The
damage to the pipeline was a severe economic blow to Ecuador, where
oil accounts for up to two-thirds of total exports and as much as 60
pct of government revenues. Financially pressed Ecuador, a member of
the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), was recently
pumping about 260,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude, about 50,000 bpd
above the output quota assigned by the cartel, another Energy Ministry
spokesman said. Last year, it exported an average of 173,500 bpd,
according to the central bank. However, Ecuador might build an
emergency 25 km pipeline, costing 15 to 20 mln dlrs, to hook up with a
Colombian pipeline, the first official said. He estimated it could
take about 60 days to build. Ecuador, squeezed by the slide in world
oil prices in 1986, had only 138 mln dlrs in net international
reserves at the end of January, about equal to one month's imports. It
suspended interest payments in January on 5.4 billion dlrs owed to
about 400 private foreign banks. The country's total foreign debt is
8.16 billion dlrs, the eighth largest in Latin America. In Caracas,
President Jaime Lusinchi said Venezuela would loan five mln barrels of
crude to Ecuador over the next three months to make up for losses from
damage to the pipeline. Ecuador asked for the loan to guarantee
domestic supplies and would ship an equivalent volume back to
Venezuela in repayment in May, Lusinchi said. A commission headed by
Venezuelan Investment Fund Minister Hector Hurtado and including
representatives from the interior and defence ministries and the state
oil company Petroleos de Venezuela will travel to Ecuador Tuesday to
evaluate and co-ordinate an emergency relief program, he said. REUTER


SAUDI ARABIA REITERATES COMMITMENT TO OPEC PACT
    BAHRAIN, March 1 - 
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer reiterated the kingdom's
commitment to last December's OPEC accord to boost world oil prices
and stabilise the market, the official Saudi Press Agency SPA said.
Asked by the agency about the recent fall in free market oil prices,
Nazer said Saudi Arabia "is fully adhering by the ... Accord and it
will never sell its oil at prices below the pronounced prices under
any circumstance." Nazer, quoted by SPA, said recent pressure on free
market prices "may be because of the end of the (northern hemisphere)
winter season and the glut in the market." Saudi Arabia was a main
architect of the December accord, under which OPEC agreed to lower its
total output ceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln barrels per day (bpd) and
return to fixed prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel. The agreement
followed a year of turmoil on oil markets, which saw prices slump
briefly to under 10 dlrs a barrel in mid-1986 from about 30 dlrs in
late 1985. Free market prices are currently just over 16 dlrs. Nazer
was quoted by the SPA as saying Saudi Arabia's adherence to the accord
was shown clearly in the oil market. He said contacts among members of
OPEC showed they all wanted to stick to the accord. In Jamaica, OPEC
President Rilwanu Lukman, who is also Nigerian Oil Minister, said the
group planned to stick with the pricing agreement. "We are aware of
the negative forces trying to manipulate the operations of the market,
but we are satisfied that the fundamentals exist for stable market
conditions," he said. Kuwait's Oil Minister, Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-
Sabah, said in remarks published in the emirate's daily Al-Qabas there
were no plans for an emergency OPEC meeting to review prices. Traders
and analysts in international oil markets estimate OPEC is producing
up to one mln bpd above the 15.8 mln ceiling. They named Kuwait and
the United Arab Emirates, along with the much smaller producer
Ecuador, among those producing above quota. Sheikh Ali denied that
Kuwait was over-producing. REUTER 

U.S OIL TAX WOULD NOT AFFECT PDVSA-CHAMPLIN DEAL
    Caracas, march 17 - 
an eventual oil import fee in the united states will make no
difference to champlin petroleum corp's joint venture agreement signed
today with petroleos de venezuela (pdvsa), champlin chairman william
adams said. "this was an aspect which was discussed at length during
the negotiations, but we can say our contract covers all eventualities
in this regard," he told reuters during the signing ceremony here.
Venezuela's energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti
earlier described the agreement, under which pdvsa buys 50 pct of
champlin's corpus christi refinery, as "one more step in the
maturation and presence of our oil industry in world markets." union
pacific chairman william cook said the agreement will be beneficial to
both sides, combining a secure source of supply with a modern refinery
and access to markets. "we are looking to a long-term relationship,
and at a time of protectionist tendencies in the U.S. Congress there
are clear benefits to both sides," he said. Adams said pdvsa crude
would remain competitive even with an oil import fee because champlin
had invested heavily over the years in adapingthe texas refinery to
process venezuelan heavy crudes with coking and hydro-treating
facilities and obtain a competitive product yield. "therefore while
the danger of an oil import fee has been a consideration in the
negotiations, and it remains to be seen what such a fee would
represent, we do not foresee any impact on today's agreement," adams
said. He said the refinery could run crude as heavy as venezuela's
bolivar coastal field (bcf) 17 api without any difficultiesand would
probably move over time to a heavier diet to take advantage of bigger
margins. The refinery has a capacity to process up to 110,000 bpd of
venezuelan high sulphur content heavy crude, with an 80-85 pct yield
of white products. Reuter 

OPEC WITHIN OUTPUT CEILING, SUBROTO SAYS
    JAKARTA, March 3 - 
Opec remains within its agreed output ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels a
day, and had expected current fluctuations in the spot market of one
or two dlrs, Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said. He told
reporters after meeting with President Suharto that present weakness
in the spot oil market was the result of warmer weather in the U.S.
And Europe which reduced demand for oil. Prices had also been forced
down because refineries were using up old stock, he said. He denied
that Opec was exceeding its agreed production ceiling. Asked what
Opec's output level was now, he replied: "Below 15.8 (mln barrels per
day)." He did not elaborate. He said there appeared to have been some
attempts to manipulate the market, but if all Opec members stick by
the cartel's December pricing agreement it would get through present
price difficulties. He predicted that prices would recover again in
the third and fourth quarters of 1987. He also reiterated that there
was no need for an emergency Opec meeting. He said Opec had expected
to see some fluctuations in the spot price. "We hope the weak price
will be overcome, and predict the price will be better in the third
and fourth quarters." Refiners, he said, appeared to have used up old
stock deliberately to cause slack demand in the market and the price
to fall. But Opec would get through this period if members stuck
together. REUTER 

KUWAIT MINISTER SAYS NO EMERGENCY OPEC TALKS SET
    KUWAIT, March 2 - 
Kuwait's oil minister said in a newspaper interview that there were no
plans for an emergency OPEC meeting after the recent weakness in world
oil prices. Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah was quoted by the local
daily al-Qabas as saying that "none of the OPEC members has asked for
such a meeting." He also denied that Kuwait was pumping above its OPEC
quota of 948,000 barrels of crude daily (bpd). Crude oil prices fell
sharply last week as international oil traders and analysts estimated
the 13-nation OPEC was pumping up to one million bpd over its self-
imposed limits. Reuter 

SUBROTO SEES OIL MARKET CONTINUING BULLISH
    JAKARTA, March 13 - 
Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said he sees the oil market
continuing bullish, with underlying demand expected to rise later in
the year. He told a press conference in Jakarta at the end of a two-
day meeting of South-East Asian Energy Ministers that he saw prices
stabilizing around 18 dlrs a barrel. "The sentiment in the market is
bullish and I think it will continue that way as demand will go up in
the third or fourth quarters," Subroto said. Asked about the prospect
for oil prices, he said: "I think they will stabilise around 18 dlrs,
although there is a little turbulence ..." "Of course the spot price
will fluctuate, but the official price will remain at 18 dlrs," he
added. REUTER 

DOE SECRETARY PROPOSES OIL TAX INCENTIVES
    WASHINGTON, March 18 - 
Energy Secretary John Herrington said he will propose tax incentives
to increase domestic oil and natural gas exploration and production to
the Reagan Administration for consideration. "These options boost
production, while avoiding the huge costs associated with proposals
like an oil import fee," Herrington told a House Energy subcommittee
hearing. "It is my intention to submit these proposals to the domestic
policy council and the cabinet for consideration and review." "The
goal of the Administration policies is to increase domestic
production. I would like to shoot for one mln barrels a day," he said.
The proposals were based on a DOE study released yesterday warning the
United States was threatened by a growing dependence on oil imports.
"We project free world dependence on Persian Gulf oil at 65 pct by
1995," Herrington said. Reuter 

ECUADOR TO ASK OPEC TO RAISE EXPORT QUOTA
    CARACAS, March 12 - 
Ecuador will ask OPEC to raise its oil export quota by 100,000 barrels
per day to 310,000 to compensate for lost output due to last week's
earthquake, deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite said. Santos
Alvite, who arrived in Caracas last night to discuss an aid plan for
Ecuador, did not say when the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC) would be approached. The additional output would be
related to plans now under discussion for Venezuela and Mexico to lend
Ecuador crude while it repairs a pipeline damaged by the quake.
Earlier, Venezuelan Energy and Mines Minister Aturo Hernandez Grisanti
said his country would supply an unspecified part of Ecuador's export
commitments. But Santos Alvite told reporters he hoped a first cargo
of 300,000 barrels could leave Maracaibo this weekend to supply
refineries near Guayaquil. He added Ecuador also wanted to make up for
50,000 bpd it shipped to Caribbean destinations. Mexico might supply
Ecuador's South Korean market. Ecuador may be unable to export oil for
up to five months due to extensive damage to a 25 mile stretch of
pipeline linking jungle oilfields to the Pacific port of Balao. REUTER


PETROBRAS ASKS ARMY TO WITHDRAW TROOPS
    RIO DE JANEIRO, MARCH 13 - 
Brazil's state-oil company Petrobras has asked the Army to withdraw
the troops which were occupying its oil installations since Tuesday,
Petrobras said in a statement. The statement said the request for the
withdrawal of the troops was made because of the calmness reigning in
all of its refineries. "The request was also due to the end of the
seamen's strike and the willingness of the oil industry workers to sit
again by the negotiating table," the statement said. Even though the
Petrobras statement said the seamen's strike was over, a union
spokesman said only two small shipping companies had reached a pay
agreement. The overwhelming majority of Brazil's seamen remained on
strike. The statement said a meeting between Petrobras and oil
industry leaders was set for next Wednesday in Rio, with the presence
of Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto as a mediator. Petrobras said the
request for the withdrawal of the troops was made at 1100 local hours
(1400 GMT), but a company spokesman said he did not know if the troops
had already been removed. Reuter 

GREECE REPEATS IT CAN DECIDE ON AEGEAN DRILLING
    ATHENS, March 5 - 
Greece, replying to a warning from Turkey that it will stop Athens
from seeking oil in the Aegean Sea, repeated today that it has an
exclusive right to decide where or when to drill in the area. A
government spokesman said in a statement that if Ankara believed
Greece was contravening international law, it could bring the issue
before the courts. The spokesman was responding to a statement by
Turkish Foreign Ministry spokesman Yalim Eralp that Ankara would take
action to stop Greece's oil activities beyond its territorial waters
as they were a violation of the 1976 Berne accord. Reuter 

CHINA CLOSES SECOND ROUND OF OFFSHORE OIL BIDS
    PEKING, March 12 - 
China has closed the second round of bidding by foreign firms for
offshore oil exploration rights, the China Daily has reported. It
quoted a spokesman for the China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC) as
saying China signed eight contracts with 15 foreign firms for blocks
in the Pearl River mouth and south Yellow Sea covering a total area of
44,913 sq km. Second round bidding began at the end of 1984 and only
one well has so far produced results -- Lufeng 13-1-1, 250 km south-
east of Shenzhen, with an output of 6,770 barrels a day. The well was
drilled by a group of Japanese companies. The spokesman added CNOOC
was ready to enter into contracts for offshore blocks before third
round bidding began. He did not say when this would be, but added the
contracts would not be bound by restrictions imposed during the second
round. China has signed 36 oil contracts and agreements with 37
companies from 10 countries since 1979, when offshore exploration was
open to foreigners. Eleven contracts were terminated after no oil was
discovered. Foreign firms have invested 2.1 billion dlrs on offshore
China since 1979. REUTER 

SHELL TO DECLARE NORWAY'S DRAUGEN FIELD COMMERCIAL
    STAVANGER, Norway, March 24 - 
<A/S Norske Shell>, Royal Dutch/Shell Group's <RD.AS> Norwegian
subsidiary, said it has nearly concluded a 10 billion crown
development scheme for Norway's Draugen oil field and will declare the
field commercial in the near future. Pending government approval of
the scheme, the field could come on stream in 1992, making it Norway's
northermost field development and the first such project on the
Haltenbanken tract off central Norway. Work on the project could begin
as early as January 1988, a Shell spokesman said. Shell has not
released projected output levels for the field, where water depth is
240-270 meters. The spokesman said the field's partners have agreed to
develop Draugen with a 300-meter, single-leg concrete gravity-base
platform. The scheme also proposes using remote subsea production
wells to tap the field's reservoir, estimated to contain 375 mln
barrels of oil, and an offshore buoy-loading system to transport oil
from the field by ship. Partners on Draugen are Shell, the operator,
with a 30 pct stake, British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> unit <BP
Petroleum Development (Norway) Ltd> (20 pct) and state-owned Den
Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S <STAT.OL> (Statoil) (50 pct). REUTER 

KUWAIT SAYS NO PLANS FOR EMERGENCY OPEC TALKS
    KUWAIT, March 1 - 
Kuwait"s Oil Minister, in remarks published today, said there were no
plans for an emergency OPEC meeting to review oil policies after
recent weakness in world oil prices. Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah
was quoted by the local daily al-Qabas as saying: "None of the OPEC
members has asked for such a meeting." He denied Kuwait was pumping
above its quota of 948,000 barrels of crude daily (bpd) set under
self-imposed production limits of the 13-nation organisation. Traders
and analysts in international oil markets estimate OPEC is producing
up to one mln bpd above a ceiling of 15.8 mln bpd agreed in Geneva
last December. They named Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, along
with the much smaller producer Ecuador, among those producing above
quota. Kuwait, they said, was pumping 1.2 mln bpd. "This rumour is
baseless. It is based on reports which said Kuwait has the ability to
exceed its share. They suppose that because Kuwait has the ability, it
will do so," the minister said. Sheikh Ali has said before that Kuwait
had the ability to produce up to 4.0 mln bpd. "If we can sell more
than our quota at official prices, while some countries are suffering
difficulties marketing their share, it means we in Kuwait are
unusually clever," he said. He was referring apparently to the Gulf
state of qatar, which industry sources said was selling less than
180,000 bpd of its 285,000 bpd quota, because buyers were resisting
official prices restored by OPEC last month pegged to a marker of 18
dlrs per barrel. Prices in New York last week dropped to their lowest
levels this year and almost three dollars below a three-month high of
19 dollars a barrel. Sheikh Ali also delivered "a challenge to any
international oil company that declared Kuwait sold below official
prices." Because it was charging its official price, of 16.67 dlrs a
barrel, it had lost custom, he said but did not elaborate. However,
Kuwait had guaranteed markets for its oil because of its local and
international refining facilities and its own distribution network
abroad, he added. He reaffirmed that the planned meeting March 7 of
OPEC"s differentials committee has been postponed until the start of
April at the request of certain of the body"s members. Ecuador"s
deputy energy minister Fernando Santos Alvite said last Wednesday his
debt-burdened country wanted OPEC to assign a lower official price for
its crude, and was to seek this at talks this month of opec"s pricing
committee. Referring to pressure by oil companies on OPEC members, in
apparent reference to difficulties faced by Qatar, he said: "We
expected such pressure. It will continue through March and April." But
he expected the situation would later improve. REUTER 

GULF CANADA <GOC> ASSERTS NO DAMAGE FROM SPILL
    Calgary, Alberta, March 20 - 
Gulf Canada Corp said a discharge of material at its Amauligak
drilling site in the Beaufort Sea caused no danger to the environment.
Yesterday, the federal department of energy charged Gulf Canada with
eight counts of illegal dumping for discharging powdered cement and
drilling mud between September 23 and 30 last year. The charges carry
a maximum 50,000 dlr fine on each count. Gulf said the government's
charges relate to discharging materials without a permit, not to
environmental damage resulting from the action. Gulf said it
voluntarily informed appropriate government officials when the
material was discharged. The company also said none of the material
was discharged within 12 miles of the closest shoreline. It added that
one of the materials cited, barite, is a naturally occurring mineral
routinely discharged into the sea during drilling operations. Reuter 

API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 4.4 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 30,000, CRUDE UP 700,000




IRAQ-TURKEY OIL PIPELINE CUT BY LANDSLIDE
    ANKARA, March 8 - Engineers are working to repair the Iraq-
Turkey oil pipeline near the southern town of Adana after it was cut
by a landslide, the Hurriyet and Anatolian news agencies said. Little
oil was lost in the landslide Friday night because taps on the one mln
bpd line were switched off after the accident, they said. The
pipeline, which carries oil for Turkey and other customers from Iraq's
Kirkuk field to the Yumurtalik terminal on the Turkish Mediterranean
coast, is Iraq's main oil outlet. REUTER 

IRAQ REPORTS RAIDS IRAN'S NOWRUZ OIL FIELD
    BAGHDAD, March 23 - 
Iraq said its warplanes launched two bombing raids on Iran's offshore
Nowruz oilfield in the northern Gulf today. A military spokesman,
quoted by the official Iraqi news agency, said platforms at the field
were reduced "to rubble." He said attacks on the field, 55 miles
northwest of Iran's Kharg Island oil terminal, were carried out at
0600 GMT. He said today's raids "fall within Iraq's policy to deprive
Iranian rulers of oil revenue used to serve their aggressive aims."
Iraqi planes yesterday raided the nearby Ardeshir oil field, resuming
attacks on Iranian targets after a month-long lull. REUTER 

GREECE SAYS IT HAS RIGHT ON AEGEAN OIL DRILLING
    ATHENS, March 2 - 
Greece, responding to a warning by Turkey against conducting oil
activities in the Aegean Sea, said today it had the right to decide
where and how to do research or drilling work in the area. A
government spokesman said the Greek position was made clear to
Turkey's ambassador Nazmi Akiman when he met Greek Foreign Affairs
Undersecretary Yannis Kapsis last week. Acting Turkish Prime Minister
Kaya Erdem said earlier today Greek activities in the northern Aegean
contravened the 1976 Berne Agreement which set the framework for talks
on the Aegean continental shelf disputed between Ankara and Athens.
The Greek statement today said, "Greece is not prepared to give up
even a trace of its sovereignty rights to the seabed. It has been
stressed to...Mr Akiman that the decision where or how to drill
belongs exclusively to the Greek government." "The Greek government
has repeatedly let the Turkish side know that it considers the 1976
Berne protocol as inactive through the fault of Turkey," it said. The
Greek statement said Athens was ready to put the continental shelf
issue before international courts. Reuter 

VENEZUELA TO LEND UP TO 12.5 MLN BARRELS OF OIL
    QUITO, March 13 - 
Venezuela will lend Ecuador up to 12.5 mln barrels of crude oil to
help it meet its export commitments and its domestic energy demand,
Ecuadorean Energy and Mines Minister Javier Espinosa said today in a
statement. Ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipeline
connecting its jungle oil fields with the Pacific Ocean port of Balao
was damaged last week by an earthquake. Venezuela would lend 50,000
barrels per day of crude for a total of up to to 7.5 mln barrels to
help Ecuador meet export commitments, Espinosa said. Also, Venezuela
will sell the crude and provide the foreign exchange earnings to
Ecuador, he said. Ecuador would repay Venezuela in crude once it
resumed its exports after repairing its pipeline to Balao, a task that
would take an estimated five months. Venezuela is lending Ecuador five
mln barrels of crude for refining in this country to meet domestic
demand. Ecuador would repay that loan with crude once the oil pipeline
is repaired. Both countries are the only Latin American members of the
Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Ecuador was
exporting about 140,000 bpd before the earthquake, Energy Ministry
officials said. Its total output was around 260,000 bpd. Reuter 

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - SAUDI ARABIA RESHAPES ECONOMY
    RIYADH, March 19 - 
Higher world oil prices, coupled with a new realism ushered in by
austerity, could lift Saudi Arabia's economy after five years of
falling revenue and growing budget deficits, bankers and diplomats
said. The months ahead will prove critical as the government attempts
a balancing act between defending higher oil prices and fostering
recovery through a bigger role for the private sector. Economists said
oil earnings could recover this year to about 20 billion dlrs and
nominal gross domestic product could grow by about three pct, the
first rise since 1982. But the economists said this will be possible
only if the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)
succeeds in defending world oil prices and if Saudi Arabia is not
forced to curtail output for too long. Saudi Arabia is now keeping
production down to defend OPEC's newly-established 18 dlr a barrel
benchmark price. Oil Minister Hisham Nazer told Reuters output is
running at about three mln barrels per day (bpd), well down on Saudi
Arabia's OPEC quota of 4.13 mln set for the first half of 1987. King
Fahd has stamped his personal authority on OPEC's new-found
determination to defend prices in a move Western diplomats believe
underlines the kingdom's need to secure a stable source of income for
its economy. Saudi Arabia, still the world's largest oil exporter, is
a hugely wealthy country. But the past five years of declining revenue
have taken their toll. Economists estimate gross domestic product fell
10 pct last year and 8.6 pct in 1985. Oil revenue last year, when
prices briefly dipped below 10 dlrs per barrel, probably totalled no
more than 17.5 billion dlrs, compared to a peak 101.8 billion in 1981.
"Austerity is still the watchword, but Saudi Arabia will not be
allowed to dip further into recession ... The Saudis can afford to
draw down reserves temporarily to offset the worst effects," a
diplomat said. In the short-term, the kingdom can lessen the impact of
lower oil revenues and a gaping budget deficit by drawing on foreign
reserves, still put at around 100 billion dlrs. But such a policy
cannot be pursued indefinitely. Bankers and diplomats said it would
amount to fiscal recklessness in the longer term. It also increases
the dominance of the public sector at a time when the government is
publicly urging private enterprise to take over the lead role in the
economy. Bankers and diplomats said the government is well aware of
the risks attached to this policy but is determined to "tough it out"
on the oil front even if that means a short-term depletion of
reserves. The 1987 budget deficit is targetted at a huge 52.7 billion
riyals or 31 pct of total outlay. The budget explicitly recognises the
need to draw down reserves while foreign borrowing has been ruled out.
Commerce Minister Suleiman Abdulaziz al-Salim told Saudi businessmen
this week the government had carefully considered the need to
stimulate the economy when drawing up its budget plans late last year.
"It therefore took the bold step of withdrawing more than 50 billion
riyals from its reserves and pumping it into the economy," he said.
Reserves were built up during the late 1970's and early 1980's when
Saudi Arabia's breakneck pace of construction and tales of high
spending became legendary. The shrinking economy has wrought huge
changes in the fabric of the Kingdom's private sector where poor
management had gone unpunished in the easy days of the oil boom.
Modern techniques of cost control have been introduced, markets
expanded and outsized labour forces and inventories cut back. The
expatriate workforce has fallen sharply. The number of new
bankruptcies appears to be declining but Saudi banks, hit hard by non-
performing loans to the corporate sector, have become highly selective
in extending new credit. Government moves to encourage lending and
investigate company complaints about late public sector contract
payments could boost confidence but recession has slowed the nation's
industrialisation program and discouraged foreign investment. Private
wealth is still very high and banks report more and more cash being
placed on deposit. As Saudi Arabia attempts to shift the weight of
economic development from the public to the private sector, one of the
biggest tasks will be to convince businessmen to channel personal
savings into industrial projects within the kingdom and refrain from
the temptation to invest abroad. REUTER 

CITGO RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS, TODAY, WTI TO 17.50 DLRS/BBL




TEXAS OIL REGULATOR CALLS FOR STATE TAX BREAKS
    AUSTIN, Texas, March 4 - 
Texas Railroad Commissioner James Nugent, saying that the ailing
oilpatch cannot wait for Congress to act, today urged Texas state
lawmakers to adopt incentives to find new oil reserves and to exempt
severance taxes on oil produced from stripper wells. Nugent said in a
speech to the Texas house of representatives that the state must take
the initiative in molding U.S. energy policy and finding new ways to
assist troubled oil producers. His proposal to revitalize Texas' oil
industry would exempt stripper wells that produce 10 barrels of oil or
less each day from the state's 4.6 pct severance tax. He said that the
majority of Texas' oil wells fall within the stripper well category
and a price swing of two to three dlrs a barrel can be crucial in
determining if the well remains in production. Nugent also called for
state lawmakers to exempt new wildcat wells from the state severance
tax for up to five years as a financial incentive to explore for new
oil reserves. Secondary and tertiary oil production, expensive methods
of production that inject water or gas into the ground to recover oil,
should also be exempted from the severance tax, Nugent said. His plan
would exempt existing secondary and tertiary wells that produce at a
rate of less than three barrels a day for three years, or until the
price of oil reaches $25 a barrel. "We've been sitting back and
waiting on two federal administrations to develop a coherent energy
policy for the nation to follow. I say we have waited long enough,"
Nugent said. "In other words, let's tell Washington to either lead,
follow, or get out of the way." Nugent said that the financial losses
to the state treasury by exempting marginal oil production from state
severance taxes would be more than made up by stimulating new business
for the oil supply and service industry. Reuter 

PEMEX SIGNS 500 MLN DLR JAPAN LOAN FOR PIPELINE
    TOKYO, March 3 - 
Mexican state oil firm Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex) signed for a 500
mln dlruntied loan from the Export-Import Bank of Japan to finance
its Pacific Petroleum Project, Pemex Japan representative Tito Ayal
said. No further details on the loan were immediately available. Ayala
told an oil seminar the project, due for completion in 1988, is aimed
at improving distribution of oil products in the domestic market,
mainly along the Pacific coast. The project consists of a pipeline
linking Nueva Teapa on the Gulf of Mexico with Salina Cruz on the
Pacific Coast, and construction of the second phase of the Salina Cruz
refinery. The project also includes construction of liquified
petroleum gas (LPG) storage tanks at Santa Cruz, additional crude oil
storage at both ends of the pipeline, an ammonia complex at Lazaro
Cardenas on the Pacific Coast and expansion of the infrastructure of
the port of Salina Cruz, Ayala said. Pemex will buy 80 mln dlrs worth
of foreign equipment and materials for the project, he said. The new
pipeline will enable Japan to load Mexico's Maya crude oil at Salina
Cruz rather than in the Gulf of Mexico. Pemex will also have some LPG
surplus available in Salina Cruz that may help Japan diversify its
supply sources of that product, he added. REUTER 

OIL TAX BREAK RIDICULED BY U.S. HOUSE TAXWRITER
    WASHINGTON, March 24 - 
A House taxwriter said Energy Secretary James Herrington's
"outrageous" plan to restore an old tax break for oil companies was
both bad tax and energy policy. Rep. Pete Stark, a California Democrat
and senior House Ways and Means Committee member, said Herrington's
plan for a 27.5 pct depletion allowance--which in effect is a special
27.5 pct tax deduction --would cost seven billion dlrs a year. "He
must have missed the last two years of federal tax reform by sleeping
as soundly as Rip Van Winkle," Stark said. He said in a statement the
oil industry already pays an effective lower rate of U.S. tax on
investment, 15 pct versus aggregate corporate tax on all investment of
34 pct, according to a recent Congressional Research Service study.
Reuter 

 CANADIAN OIL COMPANIES RAISE CRUDE PRICES
    NEW YORK, March 9 - 
Petro-Canada, the state-owned oil company, said it raised the contract
price it will pay for crude oil 64 Canadian cts a barrel, effective
March six. Petro-Canada's posted price for the benchmark light sweet
grade, Edmonton/Swann Hills at 40 api gravity, now stands at 21.95
Canadian dlrs/bbl. Their light sour grade is posted at 19.88 Canadian
dlrs/bbl. Earlier today, Shell Canada <SHC> said it raised its crude
postings about 47 Canadian cts/bbl, bringing Edmonton light sweet to
21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl, and the light sour crude to 19.95 Canadian
dlrs/bbl. Imperial oil <IMO.A>, a 70 pct owned subsidiary of Exxon
Corp, said that effective March five it also raised its light sweet
crude posting to 21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl. Reuter 

ATTACKS AFFECT COLOMBIA'S OIL OUTLOOK-ECOPETROL
    BOGOTA, March 12 - 
Continuous rebel raids against oil pipelines and foreign exploration
camps endanger Colombia's present oil bonanza, Franciso Chona, manager
of the state-run oil company Ecopetrol said. "It seems the subversion
wants to end with our oil bonanza," he told reporters. He was speaking
after a meeting with Defense Minister Rafael Samudio, military chiefs
and Mines and Energy Minister Guillermo Perry to review the security
situation in the light of a recent upsurge of leftist guerrilla
attacks in the oil-rich Arauca region, bordering Venezuela. Ecopetrol
chief of security, Retired General Carlos Narvaez, said security
measures would be stricter and that the armed forces were closely
collaborating but gave no details. Samudio said new plans had been
designed and hoped they would be effective. Samudio stressed that,
despite the most recent attacks, which cost more than four mln dlrs in
damage, the overall situation had improved compared with last December
when initial measures were taken to combat a wave of attacks. Repeated
bombings of a vital pipeline from the Cano Limon oilfield to the
Caribbean then led to a loss of 51,000 barrels of crude. Reuter 

NYMEX RULE CHANGE SEEN BOOSTING ENERGY TRADE
    NEW YORK, March 2 - 
The New York Mercantile Exchange said it will introduce exchanges for
physicals (EFPS) to its energy futures markets April one. An exchange
spokeswoman said the change will allow oil traders that do not hold a
futures position to initiate, after the exchange closes, a transaction
that can subsequently be hedged in the futures market. EFPs, already
in effect for platinum futures on NYMEX, are expected to increase the
open interest and liquidity in U.S. energy futures, according to
traders and analysts. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission
approved the rule change in February, according to a CFTC spokeswoman.
Reuter 

BP SCOTTISH REFINERY SET TO RESTART THIS WEEK
    LONDON, April 7 - 
The British Petroleum <BP.L> Co Plc's refinery at Grangemouth,
Scotland, shut down after an explosion and fire in the hydrocracker on
March 22, will probably be back in operation towards the week-end, a
refinery spokesman said. He said the refinery will resume at about
half its 178,500 barrels per day (bpd) capacity, as work on
overhauling the North Side of the complex, which began at the end of
January, will not be completed before the end of April. He said the
refinery had been closed for longer than originally expected due to
the lengthy safety checks being carried out prior to restarting. The
explosion and fire, in which one worker was killed, caused extensive
damage to the central part of the 32,000 hydrocracker and the
spokesman said today this unit would be out of operation for several
months. The remainder of the refinery, including the 19,000 catalytic
cracker, was undamaged. He said inquiries into the accident, which
happened while the hydrocracker was not in operation, were continuing.
In an earlier incident, two people were killed in an explosion and
fire at the refinery on March 13. REUTER 

NORSK HYDRO, SAGA SEEK DRILLING RIGHTS IN GABON
    OSLO, April 3 - 
Norwegian oil companies Norsk Hydro A/S <NHY.OL> and Saga Petroleum
A/S <SAGO.OL> said they have applied for offshore exploration drilling
licenses in Gabon on Africa's west coast. Saga Petroleum said it has
applied for a 35 pct share and operatorship on one block, adding
Finnish oil company Neste <NEOY.HE>(25 pct), Spain's Hispanoil (25
pct), and the World Bank's International Finance Corporation (IFS) (15
pct) have joined Saga to fill remaining shares in the application.
Saga spokesman Roy Halvorsen told Reuters he expected Gabonese
officials would reply to the application by Easter. Halvorsen said
this is the first time Saga has applied to operate on OPEC-member
Gabon's continental shelf, adding that Italian oil company Agip is
heading a group of applicants in a separate bid for the same license.
Norsk Hydro has also applied for an undisclosed share in a single
exploration license in which U.S. Oil company Tenneco has already been
assigned operatorship, company spokesman Bjoern Tretvoll said. REUTER


EXXON OFFICIAL URGES PLANNING FOR NEXT OIL SURGE
    SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 23 - 
World governments should prepare for an inevitable significant
increase in the price of oil as non-Middle East supplies diminish,
Exxon Corp <XON> director and senior vice-president Donald McIvor
said. Policymakers must also face up to the reality that the bulk of
world oil reserves lies in the Middle East, he said in a speech
prepared for delivery to the Australian Petroleum Exploration
Association (APEA) annual conference. It appears ever more likely that
new discoveries elsewhere will not change this fact, he said. McIvor
said 37 of the world's 30,000 oil fields contain about 35 pct of all
oil ever discovered. Only 11 of these 37 super-giant fields lie
outside the Middle East and only five of the 37 have been discovered
in the last 20 years, three of them in the Middle East, he said. He
also said that since 1970, the world has been consuming 20 to 25
billion barrels a year while making discoveries at the rate of only 10
to 15 billion barrels a year. More than half of remaining proved
reserves are in the Middle East, he said. McIvor said it was important
to continue to search for oil outside the Middle East because each
addition contributes to a diversity of supply desirable for global
political and economic stability. "It is important to enhance the
likelihood of home-country discoveries with measures such as non-
discriminatory and stable taxation, and minimum regulation, together
with opening up of acreage for exploration," he said. Increasing
reliance on the Middle East will also boost the incentive to use
natural gas and synthetic sources of petroleum, he added. REUTER 

OPEC PRESIDENT SAYS OUTPUT WELL BELOW CEILING
    LONDON, March 5 - 
Opec Conference President Rilwanu Lukman said the group was producing
well below the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling it set in December, partly because
liftings had been delayed or postponed by customers unwilling to pay
fixed Opec prices. Lukman, during a brief visit to London on his way
home from Jamaica, told Reuters in a telephone interview that in
February, Opec had underproduced partly because members were strictly
abiding by production quotas and partly because they were resisting
the temptation to sell at discounts to official prices of around 18
dlrs a barrel. "We are determined to stand firm by the (December)
accord," he said. "I have spoken to every other Opec minister and they
are committed to making the accord work," he said. Lukman gave no
specific figures for February output. He said the Opec secretariat in
Vienna was finalizing these figures. Told of a Reuters survey
published today which estimated that Opec output so far this week was
below 15 mln bpd, he said; "That could well be correct." Opec"s news
agency Opecna today issued a statement saying group output was "well
below" its ceiling in February. But it gave no figures. But one source
close to Opec indicated that February output may have been between
15.3 and 15.5 mln bpd. The Reuter survey estimated Opec February
output at around 16 mln bpd. Opec agreed in December to cut output by
7.25 pct to 15.8 mln bpd and to return to fixed prices starting
February 1. Lukman said Qatar, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Iran had all
produced in February below their Opec quotas. Iraq, which said it
would not honour its 1.466 mln bpd quota under the December pact, had
produced less than had been anticipated, he said. Lukman said that
some industry reports "may be correct" that in February, Nigeria
propuced 75-100,000 bpd below its 1.238 mln bpd quota, Saudi Arabia
500,000 bpd less than its 4.133 mln allocation and Qatar 20 to 30 pct
under its 285,000 bpd quota. He said that sweet crudes such as those
produced by his country were coming under price pressure because they
were currently officially priced above sweet North Sea grades and the
United States" West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude. However, he said
Opec in December had anticipated that demand would be slack at this
time of year for seasonal reasons and expected the market to firm in
two to three weeks. "We have to be patient for two or three weeks. The
market is now firming on actual fundamentals," he said, adding that he
expected it to go "up and up" even beyond official prices after early
April. This is when, traditionally, there is more demand for gasoline-
rich crudes such as Nigeria"s. The Opec President said producers such
as Kuwait, Venezuela and Indonesia were having less problems with
output than producers like his own country because they exported oil
products. Also, some of Venezuela"s heavy grades were outside the Opec
pricing system, he said. Lukman said that if refiner-buyers, now
refusing to lift some Opec oil at official prices, instead used their
own stocks and ran them down to "dangerous levels," they would
eventually have to buy Opec oil. "When they realise it is not a free-
for-all (in the market) they will realise they should buy now instead
of paying more later on," he said. Lukman, asked about industry
reports that Nigeria was being pressured by equity producers for
better terms, said it was important to know that terms with them were
negotiable, flexible and under constant review, not only when the
market seemed weak. He said that so far, no meeting of the seven-
nation ministerial differentials committee had been scheduled and that
such a meeting, now twice-postponed, was not a high priority for Opec
at the moment. "At this time, we have to get our priorities right," he
said. "The most important thing now is ensuring that the accord is
working, not dealing with a differential of cents between grades." But
if any Opec member raised concerns or objections over the differential
system, a meeting would be called, he said. Reuter 

IRANIAN OIL MINISTER DUE IN ALGERIA ON FRIDAY
    ALGIERS, March 4 - 
Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh is expected here on Friday
for talks with his Algerian counterpart Belkacem Nabi, the official
Algerian news agency APS said today. Aqazadeh, who will be accompanied
by a large delegation, will have talks on bilateral relations in the
field of energy and exchange views with Algerian officials on the
current world energy situation, it said. Reuter 

PDVSA TO SIGN CHAMPLIN REFINERY DEAL MARCH 17
    CARACAS, March 13 - 
Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. said it will sign a contract March 17 to
buy a half interest in a Corpus Christi, Texas refinery and related
operations. The contract, to be signed by PDVSA and Champlin
Petroleum's parent company, the Union Pacific Corp <UNP>, will create
a new joint venture called Champlin Refining. The state oil company
said PDVSA will pay on the order of 30 mln dlrs for the half interest
in Champlin. Energy minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said Wednesday
the cost would be 33 mln dlrs in cash, plus an additional 60 mln in
crude and refined oil shipments. PDVSA and Union Pacific have sought a
line of credit from a group of North American and Japanese banks to
finance the new company's working capital, the Venezuelan company
said. Under the deal, PDVSA will supply up to 140,000 barrels a day to
the refinery with the option to place 50,000 bpd more - mostly
gasoline and distillates - through Champlin's distribution system in
10 U.S. states. The new company will be directed by a six-member
board, with three representatives each from PDVSA and Union Pacific.
Reuter 

CANADA OIL INDUSTRY SET FOR RECOVERY - ANALYSTS
    TORONTO, April 3 - 
Firmer crude oil prices, government aid packages and corporate
spending cuts will help Canada's oil industry recover from last year
sharp downturn, industry analysts said. They said there will be
significant earnings gains in 1987 compared to last year's dismal
results when oil prices dropped about 50 pct. On Canada's stock
exchanges, energy shares have soared to their highest levels since
1983, with many issues trading at record highs. "This is reflecting a
tremendous amount of optimism on the part of the investment community
that the outlook for the industry for the future is extremely
attractive," Peters and Co Ltd oil analyst Wilf Gobert said. Financial
statements from Canada's major oil companies, culminating with Dome
Petroleum Ltd's 2.20 billion Canadian dlr 1986 loss reported this
week, painted a bleak picture of last year's results, analysts said.
"But the financial statements are a snap shot and a recording of
history. The stock market is the indication of the future," Gobert
commented. The Toronto Stock Exchange's oil and gas index of 41
companies is up to 4065.4 so far in trading today from 3053.15 at the
end of 1986. Among Canada's largest oil companies, class A shares of
Imperial Oil Ltd <IMO.A>, 70 pct owned by Exxon Corp <XON>, is trading
at 71, up from a 52-week low of 34-3/4. Shell Canada Ltd, 72 pct owned
by Royal Dutch/Shell Group, is at 40-1/2, up from a low during the
last year of 18-3/4. Texaco Canada Inc <TXC>, 78 pct owned by Texaco
Inc <TX>, is at 34-7/8, up from a low of 24-1/2. Levesque Beaubien Inc
oil analyst Robert Plexman forecasts operating profit for 10 of
Canada's largest oil and gas companies will rise 37 pct in 1987 to
about 1.44 billion dlrs and operating cash flow will increase 12 pct
to 3.24 billion dlrs, based on an average oil price for the year of
16.50 U.S. dlrs a barrel. "However, if prices hold about 18 U.S. dlrs
a barrel...1987 net operating income could show a 69 pct increase with
cash flow 27 pct higher," analyst Plexman said. "Although it is
difficult to forecast the extent of the profit improvement this year,
the gain should be significant," he added. Those improvements follow a
sharp downturn in 1986, when operating income for the ten companies
dropped 47 pct to 1.05 billion dlrs and operating cash flow fell 22
pct to 2.90 billion dlrs. But one industry source doesn't think oil
prices will hold recent gains and more government assistance is
needed. Canadian Petroleum Association technical director Hans Maciej
sees industry cash flow falling another 10 pct in 1987, after dipping
about 60 pct last year. Maciej said he sees crude oil supply
outweighing demand and doesn't believe a recent OPEC production accord
will continue to support prices. However, several companies share the
optimistic industry outlook expressed by a majority of analysts. Shell
Canada and <Norcen Energy Resources Ltd> forecast improved 1987
earnings in their annual reports issued this week, assuming oil prices
remain at or above 1986 levels. "The industry's outlook for 1987 is
positive, but not robust," Texaco Canada said in its annual report.
"While oil prices have strengthened somewhat and there is good reason
to believe that the general level is sustainable, continued volatility
is likely," Texaco Canada added. In the face of short-term
uncertainty, many companies have pared 1987 spending plans from last
year's lower levels, deferring most frontier exploration work. "The
industry is becoming very selective in investments, very conservative
and cautious, which is not unexpected," Canadian Petroleum
Association's Maciej said. Federal and Alberta goverment aid measures
helped cushion the industry downturn in 1986 and are improving 1987
results. The most significant help came last September when the
federal government lifted the 10 pct Petroleum Gas Revenue Tax (PGRT)
28 months earlier then planned. Analysts estimate the tax relief will
save larger oil companies about 1.50 billion dlrs by the end of 1988.
The PGRT cut helped brake the steep profit and cash flow decline in
1986 for many oil companies and prevented further exploration spending
cuts, analysts said. "For a number of companies, the PGRT cut was
absolutely necessary to even maintain the kind of reduced investments
that were made, otherwise the reduction would have been considerably
more," Maciej said. Reuter 

SUBROTO SEES OIL MARKET CONTINUING BULLISH
    JAKARTA, March 13 - 
Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said he sees the oil market
continuing bullish, with underlying demand expected to rise later in
the year. He told a press conference in Jakarta at the end of a two-
day meeting of South-East Asian Energy Ministers that he saw prices
stabilizing around 18 dlrs a barrel. "The sentiment in the market is
bullish and I think it will continue that way as demand will go up in
the third or fourth quarters," Subroto said. Asked about the prospect
for oil prices, he said: "I think they will stabilise around 18 dlrs,
although there is a little turbulence ..." "Of course the spot price
will fluctuate, but the official price will remain at 18 dlrs," he
added. REUTER 

KUWAIT SAYS NO OPEC MEMBER VIOLATING OUTPUT QUOTA
    KUWAIT, March 18 - 
Kuwaiti Oil Minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah said in a
newspaper interview that no OPEC member was exceeding oil production
quotas allocated by the 13-nation group. Sheikh Ali told Kuwait's
daily al-Anba "All OPEC states, without exception, are producing
within the quotas allocated to them. Some of them are producing less."
Some oil industry sources had said the United Arab Emirates, which had
been generally been producing over its quota since OPEC returned to
quotas last September, was still pumping more than its allotted amount
in the first months of this year. Ecuador had also publicly stated it
was over its quota, but an earthquake early this month stopped that.
Iraq has rejected its quota, but oil sources say it may be having
problems marketing at official prices all the oil it wants to sell.
OPEC agreed in December to cut overall oil production by 7.25 pct to
15.8 mln barrels per day (bpd) for the first six months of this year
and abide by fixed prices around 18 dlrs a barrel from February 1.
REUTER 

VENEZUELA WANTS TO BOOST ITS REFINING CAPACITY
    SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, March 30 - 
Venezuela's state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. wants to
raise its worldwide refining capacity by 150,000 barrels of per day, a
company official attending the National Petroleum Refiners Association
meeting here said. He declined to be identified but said PdVSA has the
capacity to refine about 650,000 bpd of crude oil from refining
centers in Venezuela, Sweden, West Germany, Belgium, and the United
States. The company recently purchased a 50 pct stake in the Corpus
Christi, Texas refinery of Champlin Petroleum Co, a subsidiary of
Union Pacific Corp <UNP>. Earlier it bought a similar stake in the
Lake Charles, La refinery owned by Citgo Petroleum Corp, a unit of
Southland Corp <SLC>. According to the official, Venezuela is
searching worldwide for the additional refining capacity but he did
not mention where the company was looking. Refineries abroad, he said,
guarantee a refining outlet for Venezuelan crude oil while ensuring
stability of supply to refiners. He said Venezuela currently produces
about 1.4 mln bpd of crude oil, which is in line with its 1.495 bpd
OPEC ceiling. Reuter 

MARATHON TO RAISE CRUDE PRICES 50 CTS/BBL TOMORROW WTI  TO 17.50 DLRS




ECUADOR SAYS IT WILL PAY DEBT WHEN IT CAN
    QUITO, March 16 - 
President Leon Febres Cordero said Ecuador would honour its debt when
it had the capacity to make payments, but said foreign banks had
calculated oil would have to be 25 dlrs a barrel for Ecuador to meet
its commitments. Ecuador said on Friday that last week's earthquake
was forcing it to reaffirm an earlier decision -- based on the slide
in world oil prices -- to suspend debt payments to private foreign
banks, which hold two-thirds of its 8.16 billion dlr foreign debt.
"All legitimate debt is a commitment of honour," the president said
during a visit to the quake zone. "A government as a sovereign entity
has dignity and prestige to maintain." Private foreign banks and the
World Bank had calculated oil would have to be at least 25 dlrs a
barrel for Quito to be able to meet its commitments, Febres Cordero
said. He added that Ecuadorean crude was now selling for 15 to 17 dlrs
a barrel after having been sold for many months at 12 dlrs a barrel
and as low as seven dlrs before that. Meanwhile, Ecuador announced an
austerity program and a price freeze on key consumer goods as a result
of the earthquake, which killed at least 300 people. Presidency
Minister Patricio Quevedo said the budget would be cut by five to 10
pct, government hiring would be frozen and salaries of top officials,
including the president and cabinet, would be reduced. He also said a
price freeze would be imposed on 20 basic consumer items, mainly food
staples, while the price of gasoline would rise by between 69 and 80
pct and bus fares would rise by 20 pct. Gasoline supplies would also
be limited. Reuter 

PERMIAN <PBT> RAISES CRUDE PRICES
    NEW YORK, MAR 6 - 
Permian Corp said that effective march 5 it raised its posted prices
for crude oil 50 cts a barrel. The raise brought its posted prices for
West texas Intermediate up by 50 cts to 17.00 dlrs a barrel. West
Texas Sour was also raised by 50 cts to 17.00 dlrs a barrel. A Permian
spokesman said that the South Louisiana sweet posted prices was also
raised 50 cts a barrel to 17.35 dlrs. Reuter 

SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS
    New York, March 12 - 
Southland Corp's Citgo Petroleum Corp said it raised the contract
price it will pay for crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The
increase bring's Citgo's posted price for the West Texas Intermediate
and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. The Light Louisiana
Sweet South Onshore grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs a
barrel, and Light Louisiana Sweet North was increased to 17.75 dlrs a
barrel. Citgo last changed its postings on March four. Reuter 

CANTERRA ENERGY TO DRILL WELL OFF NOVA SCOTIA
    Calgary, Alberta, March 18 - 
<Canterra Energy Ltd> said it will drill an exploratory well on the
Scotian shelf, about 280 kilometers east-southeast of Halifax, Nova
Scotia. Drilling will begin in late April 1987 in 61 meters of water
and will be drilled to a total depth of 3,500 meters, Canterra said.
Canterra will operate the well and has a 39 pct interest in it.
<Petro-Canada Inc> has 26 pct, <Trillium Exploration Corp> has 20 pct
and <Nova Scotia Resources (Ventures) Ltd> has 15 pct. Reuter 

U.S. WARNS OF DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
A White House-ordered report said that growing U.S. reliance on
foreign oil into the year 2000 could have potentially damaging
implications for national security. The Energy Department study
discusses several options to curb reliance on foreign oil, but makes
no recommendations. President Reagan and most Congressmen have
previously ruled out a tax on foreign oil as a way to curb imports and
to help the depressed domestic oil industry. Energy Secretary John
Herrington said in a statement that "although we have made gains in
energy security in the last six years, this report shows that there is
justification for national concern both over declining competitiveness
of our domestic oil and gas industry and over rising oil imports." The
report said imports last year were 33 pct of U.S. consumption and by
the mid-1990s could rise to 50 pct. Among the report's options to ease
U.S. reliance on foreign oil are several already advocated by the
Reagan Administration. President Reagan ordered the study last
September, citing a determination that the country never again become
captive to a foreign oil cartel, referring to the OPEC-led oil
shortages and sharp prices increases of the 1970s. The report said an
import fee would raise prices and help make it economical for U.S. oil
firms to find and produce new oil, as well as to cut imports, but on
the whole the tax would depress the nation's economy. reuter 

SAUDI OUTPUT SAID AT YEAR LOW TO HELP OPEC
    RIYADH, March 12 - 
Saudi Arabian oil output has fallen to its lowest level in more than a
year, giving fresh evidence of the kingdom's determination to keep oil
prices at 18 dlrs a barrel, as agreed by Opec last December, oil
industry sources said. They said Saudi output in the first eight days
of March averaged 2.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) including oil from the
neutral zone shared with Kuwait, compared to a February average of 3.5
mln bpd. They said Saudi Arabia was also selling oil from its crude
oil stocks in tankers around the world, which OPEC says must be
counted towards a member's production quota. Saudi Arabia's quota is
4.133 mln bpd. The lower production levels indicated Saudi Arabia, the
world"s largest oil exporter, was insisting on getting Opec official
prices, even at the cost of lower production, the sources said. King
Fahd reiterated yesterday, in an interview with Reuters and the
television news agency Visnews, the Saudi commitment to OPEC's
December pact to boost oil prices to an average 18 dlrs. "Saudi Arabia
is completely sticking to OPEC decisions," he said. The sources said
the kingdom's exports from Gulf ports averaged one mln bpd during the
eight days ending last Sunday, down from a February average of 1.9 mln
bpd. They said Saudi Arabia was allowing production to fluctuate with
lifting nominations and was not trying to maintain artificially high
levels by putting oil into storage. The kingdom's main buyers, the
four U.S. Oil firms with past stakes in the national oil company
Aramco -- Mobil, Exxon, Texaco and Chevron -- enjoy considerable
flexibility in the timing and volume of their liftings but are bound
to pay official prices, the sources said. Spot market prices have
firmed in the past two weeks but still remain below OPEC levels and
major buyers have delayed liftings in the hope they would improve, the
sources said. They expected low early March output to pick up towards
the end of the month as buyers sought to fulfill their contractual
obligations. REUTER 

GOODYEAR <GT> UNIT TO START UP PIPELINE
    DALLAS, March 24 - 
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co said the All American Pipeline of its
Celeron Corp subsidiary will start line fill activities on March 30 as
it begins operating. The company said about five mln barrels of oil
will be required to pack the completed segment of the line, which runs
1,225 miles from near Santa Barbara, Calif., to existing pipeline
connections in West Texas. Construction has also staqrted this week on
a 43-mile, 16-inch diameter gathering line to deliver 75,000 to
100,000 barrels a day of oil from the San Joaquin Valley in
California. The 30-inch main underground line can transport over
300,000 barrels daily. Reuter 

U.S. ENERGY CHIEF SEES PROMISE IN OIL-TAX CHANGE
    WASHINGTON, March 19 - 
Energy Secretary John Herrington said his proposed option to raise the
oil depletion allowance to 27.5 pct was probably the most economically
promising way to spur domestic production. The White House has said it
would consider the option although it was generally opposed to any
revisions in the new tax code. Herrington told a meeting of the Mid-
Continent Oil and Gas Association that the higher depletion allowance
on new oil and enhanced oil recovery would cost taxpayers about 200
mln dlrs a year. The option was one of many contained in a report on
oil and the national security the Energy Department sent to the White
House on Tuesday. Herrington said of the increased depletion allowance
option: "that is one that could significantly increase production at a
very low cost to the American taxpayer." He again rejected an oil
import fee as far too costly to the overall U.S. economy. Reuter 

TEXACO <TX> TO CEASE POSTING TEXAS OIL PRICE
    NEW YORK, MARCH 18 - 
Texaco Refining and Marketing, an operating subsidiary of Texaco Inc,
said it would cease to post crude oil prices for West Texas crudes at
the end of this month following a decision to discontinue purchase of
crude oil from leases, a Texaco spokesman in Houston said. But it will
continue to purchase quantities of U.S. and foreign crude oil for use
in its refinery system, he added. The spokesman also said Texaco
Trading and Transport Inc would continue to acquire and market Texaco
lease production as well as other lease production. The company will
continue to post a Louisiana price, it said. Reuter 

BP GRANGEMOUTH REFINERY SHUT, HYDROCRACKER DAMAGED
    LONDON, MARCH 23 - 
The entire British Petroleum Co PLC refinery at Grangemouth in
Scotland has been shut down following the explosion and fire that
severely damaged the hydrocracker at the site, a refinery spokesman
said. He said the rest of the 178,500 bpd refinery, including the
19,000 bpd catalytic cracker, was undamaged. The whole refinery was
closed pending enquiries but a decision when to reopen the main units
will be taken in the next couple of days, he said. But there was
extensive damage to the central part of the 32,000 bpd hydrocracker,
which upgrades heavy oil products to gasoline, and it will be out of
operation for some months. The spokesman said BP will not suffer
supply shortages as a result of the explosion as it will be able to
bring in product from other sources. BP has a 437,000 bpd refinery in
Rotterdam, a 181,900 bpd unit at Ingolstadt, West Germany, a 181,900
bpd plant at Lavera in France and a smaller Swedish plant. He said the
explosion and fire, in which one worker was killed, occurred when the
hydrocracker was not in operation. The refinery as a whole had been
operating at about half of its capacity since the end of January while
an extensive overhaul was carried out on the North Side of the complex
where the hydrocracker is sited, he said. This work was scheduled to
be completed by mid-April, but this is now being assessed following
the hydrocracker accident. Two people were killed in an explosion and
fire in a flare line at the Grangemouth refinery on March 13, but the
spokesman said this incident was some 100 yards from the latest
accident. REUTER 

EGYPTIAN 1986 CRUDE OIL OUTPUT DOWN ON 1985
    CAIRO, March 5 - 
Non-Opec Egypt produced 40.3 mln tonnes (about 295 mln barrels) of
crude in 1986 against 44.3 mln tonnes (about 323 mln barrels) in 1985,
according to official figures released today by the Egyptian General
Petroleum Corp. (EGPC). Officials say Egypt can produce up to one mln
bpd per day, but production was cut when world prices plunged last
year. In an attempt to help OPEC stabilize the world market, Egypt cut
its 1987 production target of 940,000 bpd to its current output of
870,000 bpd. Egypt, which exports a third of its output, currently
sells its top Suez and Ras Bahar blends for 17.25 dlrs a barrel.
REUTER 

HERRINGTON SAYS HE MAY RECOMMEND TAX BENEFITS FOR U.S. OIL INDUSTRY




API SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK
    WASHINGTON, March 17 - 
Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 7.35 mln
barrels in the week ended March 13 to 112.74 mln barrels from a
revised 120.09 mln the previous week, the American Petroleum Institute
(API) said. In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade
group said gasoline stocks fell 2.89 mln barrels to 248.44 mln barrels
from a revised 251.33 mln, and crude oil stocks dropped 4.39 mln
barrels to 325.13 mln from a revised 329.52 mln. It said residual fuel
stocks fell 250,000 barrels to 35.73 mln from 35.98 mln barrels. API
said refinery runs in the week rose to 11.80 mln barrels per day (bpd)
from a revised 11.70 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was
75.7 pct, up from a revised 75.0 pct. Crude oil imports in the week
rose to 3.66 mln bpd from a revised 2.67 mln, API added. Reuter 

ECUADOR GETS LOAN TO HELP REPAIR OIL PIPELINE
    CARACAS, March 19 - 
The Andean Development Corp (CAF) said today it is lending 11.7 mln
dlrs to Ecuador to help repair 25 miles of oil pipeline destroyed by
an earthquake earlier this month. the loan was signed here today in
the offices of the caracas based caf by the corporation's president,
galo montano perez and ecuadorean ambassador antonio parra gil. the
loan had originally been intended to finance an expansion of the
pipeline, but following the earthquake the ecuadorean government asked
for the terms to be changed so as to permit their use in
reconstruction. Ecuador expects oil production to be suspended for
four months as a result of the damage, and has asked Venezuela to help
by supplying 50,000 barrels per day while the pipeline is repaired.
The OPEC member has a production quota of 210,000 bpd but has asked
the organization to allow it to produce 310,000 bpd once the repairs
are completed so as to compensate the loss. Reuter 

JORDAN-PETROCANADA AGREE OIL EXPLORATION PROJECT
    AMMAN, March 11 - 
A two-year project to search for oil and gas in Jordan was agreed in
Amman by Jordan's Natural Resources Authority (NRA) and the Canadian
company, Petrocanada International Assistance Corporation (PCIAC). The
19.1 mln dlr assistance agreement was signed by Jordan's Minister of
Energy Hisham al-Khatib and PCIAC chairman Peter M. Towe. PCIAC is a
Canadian government corporation providing assistance to countries like
Jordan to reduce their dependence on oil imports, Towe said. Reuter 

U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY OPTIMISTIC ON INCENTIVES
    HOUSTON, March 24 - 
U.S. Department of Energy Secretary John Herrington said he was
"optimistic" about the chances of providing a more generous depletion
allowance for oil and gas producers, but added that the plan faces
strong opposition from some members of the Reagan administration.
Herrington, speaking to Houston oil executives at a breakfast meeting,
said administration debate over his plan for a 27.5 pct annual
depletion allowance was "heavy and strong" largely because of some
fears that the U.S. oil industry could eventually become as dependent
on federal subsidies as the agriculture industry. Herrington's
proposed tax incentives for the oil industry were issued last week
after the Department of Energy released a comprehensive report finding
U.S. national security could be jeopardized by rising oil imports. In
response to a question from Mitchell Energy and Development Corp <MND>
chairman, George Mitchell, Herrington said the report did not
definitively rule out an oil import tarrif. "We intend to keep that
debate open," Herrington said. However, following his speech,
Herrington told Reuters that the new report shows an oil import fee
"is not economical." Herrington said, for example, a 10 dlr per barrel
tariff on oil imports would cause the nation's gross national product
to drop by as much as 32 billion dlrs. Herrington also said he
believed President Reagan, who requested the comprehensive national
security study, was committed to some action to help the ailing U.S.
oil industry. "I'm quite confident he understands the problems and is
prepared to do something about it," Herrington said. Reuter 

ECUADOR DEPUTY MINISTER SEEKS OIL AID IN VENEZUELA
    CARACAS, March 11 - 
Ecuador's deputy energy minister Fernando Santos Alvite arrived here
last night for talks on further Venezuelan assistance to his country's
oil industry following last week's earthquake, officials said. Ecuador
was obliged to suspend crude oil exports for an expected five months
as a result of damage to 25 miles of pipeline linking its jungle oil
fields with the Pacific port of Balao. Oil normally accounts for 60
pct of its exports. Fellow OPEC member Venezuela has already agreed to
lend Ecuador five mln barrels of crude, to be repaid in kind after 180
days, to help meet its domestic consumption needs. The officials could
neither confirm nor deny reports that Venezuela will temporarily
produce Ecuador's entire OPEC quota, set at 210,000 barrels per day
for first half 1987. "All options are open at this moment in the
context of cooperation on oil production," a Venezuelan energy and
mines ministry source said. Discussions are also under way to arrive
at a formula to compensate Ecuador for the loss in oil export revenue
while the pipeline is repaired, officials said. Santos Alvite last
night met Venezuelan energy and mines minister Arturo Hernandez
Grisanti and will today hold talks at technical level, officials said.
Industry sources said that among the options are for Venezuela to
produce Ecuador's entire quota, or for Venezuela and non-OPEC Mexico
to share it and for the latter to supply Ecuador's Far Eastern
clients. But the ministry source said that no decision has yet been
reached on the matter, and that an announcement would be made in due
course. Santos Alvite said earlier in Quito that Ecuador would have to
import six to seven mln barrels of crude oil to meet its needs until
the line was repaired. Ecuador energy and mines minister Javier
Espinosa Teran said last night his country needs 120 mln dlrs to
repair the damage to the export pipeline caused by the earthquake.
REUTER 

HOUSTON OIL <HO> RESERVES STUDY COMPLETED
    HOUSTON, Feb 26 - 
Houston Oil Trust said that independent petroleum engineers completed
an annual study that estimates the trust's future net revenues from
total proved reserves at 88 mln dlrs and its discounted present value
of the reserves at 64 mln dlrs. Based on the estimate, the trust said
there may be no money available for cash distributions to unitholders
for the remainder of the year. It said the estimates reflect a
decrease of about 44 pct in net reserve revenues and 39 pct in
discounted present value compared with the study made in 1985. Reuter


SHELL CANADA <SHC> RAISED CRUDE OIL POSTINGS
    NEW YORK, MARCH 9 - 
Shell Canada, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group
<RD> said that it raised crude oil prices by about 47 Canadian cts a
barrel today. The increase riased its posted price for Light sweet
crude oil to 21.95 dlrs a barrel from its march one level. Light sour
crudes were raised to 19.95 dlrs a barrel, the company said. Reuter 

AMOCO REPORTS SOUTH CHINA SEA OIL FIND
    PEKING, March 9 - 
The U.S. <Amoco Petroleum Corp> has reported an offshore oil find at
its Pearl River basin concession in the South China Sea, the New China
News Agency said. It said the Liu Hua 11-1-1 A well produced at around
2,240 barrels per day at a depth of 305 metres. The news agency said
Amoco plans to drill a second well in the area this year, but gave no
further details. REUTER 

