IRAN WARNS U.S. AGAINST RAISING TENSION IN GULF
    NICOSIA, Oct 19 - 
Iran warned the United States on Monday against exacerbating the Gulf
crisis, saying it would endanger American interests. Tehran Radio,
monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, said a spokesman
for Iran's War Information Headquarters was responding "to U.S.
Officials' remarks about taking military action against Iran." The
radio also quoted an Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying Iran
would respond decisively to any aggressive measure by the United
States. The radio said the spokesman made the statement "following the
attack on a Kuwaiti ship under the U.S. Flag and comments by American
officials on carrying out retaliatory action against Iran." The
spokesman said, "Any U.S. Military aggression against Iran will
certainly be the beginning of an extensive clash in the Persian Gulf,
and amidst this our principled policy is to confront any act which
escalates tension." REUTER 

TODD SHIPYARDS <TOD> STRUCK ON WEST COAST
    JERSEY CITY, N.J., April 9 - 
Todd Shipyards Corp said production workers represented by the multi-
union Pacific Coast Metal Trades District Council at its San Francisco
division struck on April Six. It said negotiations are expected to
resume at the end of this month. Todd also said the collective
bargaining division in effect at its Galveston Division expires April
17, and negotiations with the Galveston Metal Trades Council are
continuing. The company said results of balloting on a new collective
bargaining agreement proposal in its Seattle Division are expected to
be tabulated at the close of business tomorrow. The Pacific Coast
Council has recommended acceptance of that proposal by membership,
Todd said. Reuter 

MOSCOW SAYS WILL RETALIATE AGAINST GULF ATTACKS
    KUWAIT, June 1 - 
Any Iranian attack on Soviet ships in the Gulf will bring a forceful
and violent response, a Soviet foreign ministry official said in an
interview published here. Alexander Ivanov, head of the Gulf desk at
the Soviet Foreign Ministry, told Al-Rai al-Aam newspaper Moscow "will
answer back with force and violence if Iran attempts to attack any
Soviet ship or tanker in the Gulf." A Soviet tanker hit a mine in the
Gulf last month. Ivanov also accused the United States of stepping up
the regional crisis and of failing to exert genuine efforts to end the
Iran-Iraq war. REUTER 

U.S. HOUSE PASSES MIDEAST GULF BILL
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
The House today approved a bill requiring the Reagan administration to
report to Congress on its Mideast Gulf policy but not restricting its
actions. The vote in favor was despite a last-minute revolt by an
alliance of liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans who sought
to defeat it as a signal that a growing number of legislators oppose
President Reagan's policies in the region. In the Senate, a leading
Republican senator, former Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman
Mark Hatfield of Oregon, said he would try to prevent consideration of
the bill. He said he will put a so-called "hold" on the bill until he
finds out whether the War Powers Act applies to protecting Kuwaiti
tankers. Congressional leaders complain they were not consulted about
plans to put the U.S. flag on Kuwaiti ships and some charged the
policy could lead the U.S. into the Iran-Iraq war. Conservative
Republicans said increasing the U.S. military obligation in the gulf
would place impossible burdens on American servicemen and equipment,
and warned it could lead to war. "It is a real snake pit at best and a
powder keg that will blow sky-high at worst," said Wisconsin Rep. Toby
Roth. Reuter 

PENTAGON SAYS U.S. WARSHIPS BEGIN ESCORTING GULF TANKER CONVOY SOUTH FROM KUWAIT




SPAIN CARGO FIRMS HIRE DOCKERS TO OFFSET STRIKE
    BARCELONA, June 19 - 
Cargo handling companies said they were hiring twice the usual number
of dockers to offset an intermittent strike in Spanish ports. Spanish
dockers began a nine-day strike on Wednesday in which they only work
alternate hours in protest at government plans to partially privatize
port services. Reuter 

U.S. REASSERTS PLANS FOR DETERRENT ROLE IN GULF
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
The United States responded to an apparent escalation of Iranian
rhetoric with continued assurances that its expanded military force in
the Gulf would play purely a deterrent role. "I can only emphasize
that our role there is deterrent, that we're going to be assuring
safety for American shipping and that that shipping is not related to
the war itself," State Department spokesman Charles Redman told
reporters. He was asked about Iranian claims that the United States
was moving towards the brink of armed conflict with Iran. Tehran Radio
quoted defence spokesman Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani telling a
visiting Nicaraguan delegation yesterday, "At the moment the United
States is moving towards the brink of an armed encounter with us. "We
are not concerned about this and believe that the U.S. Presence in the
war will make our nation even more serious. We are determined to stand
firm and will certainly win." The United States disclosed last week it
was beefing up its Gulf fleet from seven to 10 warships and also
sending the refurbished battleship Missouri to patrol just outside the
strategic Strait of Hormuz, entrance to the Gulf. The buildup ties in
with U.S. Plans to escort Kuwaiti oil tankers which have been re-
registered to fly the American flag and gain naval protection against
Iranian attacks. Asked about the Iranian rhetoric, White House
spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, "We won't have any comment or
response to the Iranian statements. Our position has been made clear
about the status of events in the Gulf. We want an end to the war with
no winners and no losers and any activities or statements that tend to
prolong the war or increase hostilities are not helpful or welcome."
Redman said he could not independently confirm reports that Iran has
offered to halt attacks on Gulf shipping. Reuter 

RIO DE JANEIRO DOCKERS STRIKE
    RIO DE JANEIRO, JUNE 18 - 
Rio de Janeiro's 3,500 dockworkers went on strike for an indefinite
period today to demand wage increases, a spokesman for the dockers
said. The Rio dockers did not get support from their colleagues in
Santos, Brazil's main port, but the spokesman said they would not
return to work unless their demands were met. Earlier this week, some
65,000 dockworkers cancelled a scheduled national strike to pressure
port officials to give them a wage increase and other benefits. A Rio
port spokesman said the halt would cause daily losses of about 100,000
U.S. Dlrs. Reuter 

KUWAIT SAYS IT HAS FULL GULF ARAB SUPPORT
    KUWAIT, June 29 - 
Kuwait, whose shipping has come under repeated attack by Iran, has the
full support of Saudi Arabia and other Gulf allies, a senior
government official said. Cabinet spokesman Abdul-Aziz al-Otaibi,
quoted by the Kuwaiti news agency KUNA yesterday, said Foreign
Minister Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah had told cabinet he had found
"complete support...At this delicate phase" during visits to Gulf
Cooperation Council (GCC) states. The GCC, an economic and military
alliance which has generally supported Iraq over Iran, comprises
Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates. REUTER 

IRANIAN TANKER REPORTS SIGHTING MINE IN GULF
    BAHRAIN, Oct 20 - 
An Iranian shuttle tanker reported spotting a floating mine in the
central Gulf on Tuesday about 50 miles west of Lavan Island, regional
shipping sources said. The Khark III, owned by the National Iranian
Tanker Co, gave the position of the mine as 27 degrees 14 minutes
north, 52.06 east. There was no indication of measures being taken
against the mine, which is in Iranian territorial waters. REUTER 

LAST-MINUTE OPPOSITION TO GULF BILL ARISES
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
House Speaker Jim Wright predicted passage of legislation requiring
the Reagan administration to provide Congress with a report on its
Mideast Gulf policy, but a last-minute revolt by an alliance of
liberals and conservatives left the bill's fate in doubt. The
legislation was written in the wake of the May 17th Iraqi missile
attack on the U.S. frigate Stark in the Gulf, which killed 37
Americans, and President Reagan's decision to protect 11 Kuwaiti oil
tankers by putting them under U.S. flags -- effectively making them
American ships. Since the administration made known its reflagging
plans, congressional leaders complained they had not been consulted,
and some charged the policy could lead the United States into the 6
1/2-year-old war between Iran and Iraq. The House was to vote today on
a bill -- supported by the Democratic and Republican congressional
leadership and the administration -- which demanded a report within
seven days on plans to meet the security needs of U.S. forces in the
gulf. The resolution was expected to pass without controversy today in
the House Foreign Affairs Committee before the full House was to take
up the bill. But in a surprise move, liberal Democrats and
conservative Republicans on the committee joined in an unusual
alliance to oppose the resolution. Liberal Democrats said a lack of
any restrictions in the bill implied consent to Reagan's policies.
Reuter 

ANIMAL FEED SHIP ON FIRE AGAIN AT CHINESE PORT
    LONDON, Oct 19 - 
The Cyprus vessel Fearless, 31,841 tonnes dw, which was on fire,
grounded then towed to Yantai, China, in August, had all its cargo
reloaded but the cargo in the no. 3 hold caught fire on October 15.
The fire was put out with salt water and water from the no.4 hold has
spread over most of the cargo. Some water is also in the no.5 hold.
Bottom patching was reported complete but only the no.4 starboard wing
tank has been pumped out and remains dry. The engine room is flooded
to about three metres. The ship was originally loaded with 10,000
tonnes of animal feed. REUTER 

IRAN WARNS U.S. AGAINST RAISING TENSION IN GULF
    NICOSIA, Oct 19 - 
Iran warned the United States on Monday against exacerbating the Gulf
crisis, saying it would endanger American interests. Tehran Radio,
monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, said a spokesman
for Iran's War Information Headquarters was responding "to U.S.
Officials' remarks about taking military action against Iran." The
radio also quoted an Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying Iran
would respond decisively to any aggressive measure by the United
States. The radio said the spokesman made the statement "following the
attack on a Kuwaiti ship under the U.S. Flag and comments by American
officials on carrying out retaliatory action against Iran." The
spokesman said, "Any U.S. Military aggression against Iran will
certainly be the beginning of an extensive clash in the Persian Gulf,
and amidst this our principled policy is to confront any act which
escalates tension." REUTER 

TODD SHIPYARDS <TOD> STRUCK ON WEST COAST
    JERSEY CITY, N.J., April 9 - 
Todd Shipyards Corp said production workers represented by the multi-
union Pacific Coast Metal Trades District Council at its San Francisco
division struck on April Six. It said negotiations are expected to
resume at the end of this month. Todd also said the collective
bargaining division in effect at its Galveston Division expires April
17, and negotiations with the Galveston Metal Trades Council are
continuing. The company said results of balloting on a new collective
bargaining agreement proposal in its Seattle Division are expected to
be tabulated at the close of business tomorrow. The Pacific Coast
Council has recommended acceptance of that proposal by membership,
Todd said. Reuter 

MOSCOW SAYS WILL RETALIATE AGAINST GULF ATTACKS
    KUWAIT, June 1 - 
Any Iranian attack on Soviet ships in the Gulf will bring a forceful
and violent response, a Soviet foreign ministry official said in an
interview published here. Alexander Ivanov, head of the Gulf desk at
the Soviet Foreign Ministry, told Al-Rai al-Aam newspaper Moscow "will
answer back with force and violence if Iran attempts to attack any
Soviet ship or tanker in the Gulf." A Soviet tanker hit a mine in the
Gulf last month. Ivanov also accused the United States of stepping up
the regional crisis and of failing to exert genuine efforts to end the
Iran-Iraq war. REUTER 

U.S. HOUSE PASSES MIDEAST GULF BILL
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
The House today approved a bill requiring the Reagan administration to
report to Congress on its Mideast Gulf policy but not restricting its
actions. The vote in favor was despite a last-minute revolt by an
alliance of liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans who sought
to defeat it as a signal that a growing number of legislators oppose
President Reagan's policies in the region. In the Senate, a leading
Republican senator, former Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman
Mark Hatfield of Oregon, said he would try to prevent consideration of
the bill. He said he will put a so-called "hold" on the bill until he
finds out whether the War Powers Act applies to protecting Kuwaiti
tankers. Congressional leaders complain they were not consulted about
plans to put the U.S. flag on Kuwaiti ships and some charged the
policy could lead the U.S. into the Iran-Iraq war. Conservative
Republicans said increasing the U.S. military obligation in the gulf
would place impossible burdens on American servicemen and equipment,
and warned it could lead to war. "It is a real snake pit at best and a
powder keg that will blow sky-high at worst," said Wisconsin Rep. Toby
Roth. Reuter 

PENTAGON SAYS U.S. WARSHIPS BEGIN ESCORTING GULF TANKER CONVOY SOUTH FROM KUWAIT




SPAIN CARGO FIRMS HIRE DOCKERS TO OFFSET STRIKE
    BARCELONA, June 19 - 
Cargo handling companies said they were hiring twice the usual number
of dockers to offset an intermittent strike in Spanish ports. Spanish
dockers began a nine-day strike on Wednesday in which they only work
alternate hours in protest at government plans to partially privatize
port services. Reuter 

U.S. REASSERTS PLANS FOR DETERRENT ROLE IN GULF
    WASHINGTON, June 29 - 
The United States responded to an apparent escalation of Iranian
rhetoric with continued assurances that its expanded military force in
the Gulf would play purely a deterrent role. "I can only emphasize
that our role there is deterrent, that we're going to be assuring
safety for American shipping and that that shipping is not related to
the war itself," State Department spokesman Charles Redman told
reporters. He was asked about Iranian claims that the United States
was moving towards the brink of armed conflict with Iran. Tehran Radio
quoted defence spokesman Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani telling a
visiting Nicaraguan delegation yesterday, "At the moment the United
States is moving towards the brink of an armed encounter with us. "We
are not concerned about this and believe that the U.S. Presence in the
war will make our nation even more serious. We are determined to stand
firm and will certainly win." The United States disclosed last week it
was beefing up its Gulf fleet from seven to 10 warships and also
sending the refurbished battleship Missouri to patrol just outside the
strategic Strait of Hormuz, entrance to the Gulf. The buildup ties in
with U.S. Plans to escort Kuwaiti oil tankers which have been re-
registered to fly the American flag and gain naval protection against
Iranian attacks. Asked about the Iranian rhetoric, White House
spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, "We won't have any comment or
response to the Iranian statements. Our position has been made clear
about the status of events in the Gulf. We want an end to the war with
no winners and no losers and any activities or statements that tend to
prolong the war or increase hostilities are not helpful or welcome."
Redman said he could not independently confirm reports that Iran has
offered to halt attacks on Gulf shipping. Reuter 

RIO DE JANEIRO DOCKERS STRIKE
    RIO DE JANEIRO, JUNE 18 - 
Rio de Janeiro's 3,500 dockworkers went on strike for an indefinite
period today to demand wage increases, a spokesman for the dockers
said. The Rio dockers did not get support from their colleagues in
Santos, Brazil's main port, but the spokesman said they would not
return to work unless their demands were met. Earlier this week, some
65,000 dockworkers cancelled a scheduled national strike to pressure
port officials to give them a wage increase and other benefits. A Rio
port spokesman said the halt would cause daily losses of about 100,000
U.S. Dlrs. Reuter 

KUWAIT SAYS IT HAS FULL GULF ARAB SUPPORT
    KUWAIT, June 29 - 
Kuwait, whose shipping has come under repeated attack by Iran, has the
full support of Saudi Arabia and other Gulf allies, a senior
government official said. Cabinet spokesman Abdul-Aziz al-Otaibi,
quoted by the Kuwaiti news agency KUNA yesterday, said Foreign
Minister Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah had told cabinet he had found
"complete support...At this delicate phase" during visits to Gulf
Cooperation Council (GCC) states. The GCC, an economic and military
alliance which has generally supported Iraq over Iran, comprises
Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates. REUTER 

IRANIAN TANKER REPORTS SIGHTING MINE IN GULF
    BAHRAIN, Oct 20 - 
An Iranian shuttle tanker reported spotting a floating mine in the
central Gulf on Tuesday about 50 miles west of Lavan Island, regional
shipping sources said. The Khark III, owned by the National Iranian
Tanker Co, gave the position of the mine as 27 degrees 14 minutes
north, 52.06 east. There was no indication of measures being taken
against the mine, which is in Iranian territorial waters. REUTER 

LAST-MINUTE OPPOSITION TO GULF BILL ARISES
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
House Speaker Jim Wright predicted passage of legislation requiring
the Reagan administration to provide Congress with a report on its
Mideast Gulf policy, but a last-minute revolt by an alliance of
liberals and conservatives left the bill's fate in doubt. The
legislation was written in the wake of the May 17th Iraqi missil
U.S. HOUSE PASSES GULF BILL DESPITE OPPOSITION
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
The U.S. House of Representatives approved a bill that requires the
Reagan administration to provide Congress with a report on its Gulf
policy but does not place any restrictions on its actions. The bill
passed 305-102 -- winning a necessary two-thirds of those voting --
despite a last-minute revolt by an alliance of liberal Democrats and
conservative Republicans who sought to defeat it as a signal that a
growing number of legislators oppose President Reagan's policies in
the region. The legislation was passed in the wake of the May 17th
Iraqi missile attack on the U.S. frigate Stark in the Gulf, which
killed 37 Americans, and Reagan's decision to protect 11 Kuwaiti oil
tankers by putting them under U.S. flags -- effectively making them
American ships. The legislation -- supported by Congress' Democratic
and Republican leadership as well as by the administration -- required
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger to provide a report to Congress,
within seven days of enactment, on plans to protect U.S. warships and
flag ships in the Persian Gulf. It did not, however, place any
restrictions on the administration as it proceeds to reflag the
Kuwaiti ships and thus has no immediate effect on U.S. policy. The
Senate was expected to approve the legislation this week. The bill
would then be sent to Reagan for signature. Supporters of the bill
said passage of the bill was only a first step toward a greater
congressional involvement in formulating policy. But Democratic
critics said the bill did not ask the administration to address tough
policy questions in the report. Reuter 

INDEPENDENT CHAIRMAN FOR DUTCH CARGO DISPUTE
    ROTTERDAM, April 8 - 
The two sides in the Rotterdam port general cargo dispute have agreed
to appoint an independent chairman, Han Lammers, to preside over
future meetings, employers' spokesman Gerard Zeebregts said. Lammers,
Queen's Commissioner for the province of Flevoland, will not act as a
mediator but will draw up an agenda and procedures for meetings
between the employers and unions on a work-practice agreement and
proposed redundancies. Two months of strikes in the sector began on
January 19 in protest at employers' proposals for 350 redundancies
from the 4,000-strong workforce this year. The strikes were called off
by the main port union FNV on March 13 following an Amsterdam court's
interim injunction against the redundancies on procedural grounds. The
court is due to make a final ruling on May 7 but Zeebregts said he
expected the judgment to go against the employers and they were
therefore very likely to restart the complicated legal redundancy
procedures in the near future. Meanwhile, the dispute over a new work-
practice agreement in the port's grain sector continued, with 30
maintenance workers on strike, although loading was not affected, a
spokesman for Graan Elevator Mij, the largest employer in the sector,
said. The employers have written to the union asking it to reconsider
its position and a meeting of union members has been called for
tomorrow. Reuter 

HIGH WATER EXTENDS RHINE RIVER BLOCKAGE
    BONN, June 19 - 
Rising water levels on the Rhine caused by heavy rain are delaying an
operation near Karlsruhe to raise two sunken boats which have blocked
the river's main navigation channel since early last week, a Karlsruhe
water authority spokesman said. He said two floating cranes were
unable to begin lifting the sunken tug Orinoko and its lighter because
the water level had reached 815 centimetres and was forecast to rise
to 820-830 cm by tomorrow. He was unable to say when the operation
might begin. Meanwhile, high water at Cologne has forced vessels to
travel at reduced speed, a water authority spokesman in Cologne said.
But a water authority spokesman in Duisburg, 60 kms north of Cologne,
said vessels there were moving normally. Reuter 

COLOMBO TO DEFEND WATERS, INDIA READIES FLOTILLA
    COLOMBO, June 2 - 
Sri Lanka today ordered its armed forces to defend the island's
territorial waters as India prepared to send a flotilla with relief
supplies that Colombo says it does not want for the Tamils in the
Jaffna peninsula. The sudden crisis between Sri Lanka and its giant
neighbour deepened as Prime Minister Ranasinghe Premadasa told
parliament: "We have our territorial limits and nobody can be allowed
to trespass there ... "President (Junius) Jayewardene has ordered the
army, navy and air force to protect the island and its territorial
waters," Premadasa said to a round of applause from the house. In New
Delhi an Indian spokesman said the plan to send a flotilla of 20 small
unarmed boats with Red Cross supplies to Jaffna tomorrow would go
ahead despite Colombo's objections. The confrontation was the latest
result of the long and bitter conflict between Sri Lanka's Buddhist
Sinhalese majority and the Hindu Tamil minority, which has strong
ethnic and cultural links with India's 50 mln Tamils. Reuter 

IRAN SAYS IT WILL COMBAT GULF INTERVENTION
    ABU DHABI, June 1 - 
Iranian foreign minister Ali Akbar Velayati warned that Iran would
combat any superpower intervention in the Gulf. "Iran, which is the
most powerful (country) in the Gulf... Will not allow the superpowers
or any other foreign forces to interfere in the region," he said.
Velayati, visiting the United Arab Emirates on the first leg of a Gulf
tour, told reporters Iran had the "capabilities and means" to prevent
any interference. President Reagan has pledged to keep the Gulf
sealanes open and to protect Kuwaiti tankers from possible Iranian
attack. REUTER 

SAUDI ROLE IN GULF PRAISED BY U.S. OFFICIALS
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz was thanked by the
Reagan administration for his country's close, and closed-mouthed,
cooperation with Washington in the Gulf, a senior U.S. official said.
"The Saudis are being very cooperative. It would be nice if the Saudis
would go more public, but it's their real estate," said the official
who asked not to be named. He declined to describe what sort of help
the Saudis were providing, saying that Saudi officials are reluctant
to acknowledge their role in the Gulf where the United States has
stationed forces to protect shipping lanes. The prince met Vice
President George Bush on Monday after U.S. naval forces attacked
offshore Iranian oil platforms in what Washington said was retaliation
for an Iranian attack on a ship moored off Kuwait and flying the U.S.
flag. Asked at the start of the meeting how he felt about the attack,
the prince, who is here on an official visit, replied, "I believe what
the United States has done is their responsibility as a superpower."
The senior U.S. official said his remark was an endorsement of the
U.S. attack. Reuter 

AUSTRALIAN FOREIGN SHIP BAN ENDS BUT NSW PORTS HIT
    SYDNEY, April 8 - 
Tug crews in New South Wales (NSW), Victoria and Western Australia
yesterday lifted their ban on foreign-flag ships carrying containers
but NSW ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute,
shipping sources said. The ban, imposed a week ago over a pay claim,
had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels,
they said. The pay dispute went before a hearing of the Arbitration
Commission today. Meanwhile, disruption began today to cargo handling
in the ports of Sydney, Newcastle and Port Kembla, they said. The
industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the week of action
called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council to protest changes to the
state's workers' compensation laws. The shipping sources said the
various port unions appear to be taking it in turn to work for a short
time at the start of each shift and then to walk off. Cargo handling
in the ports has been disrupted, with container movements most
affected, but has not stopped altogether, they said. They said they
could not say how long the disruption will go on and what effect it
will have on shipping movements. REUTER 

RHINE BLOCKED FOR THREE MORE WEEKS - SALVAGER
    ROTTERDAM, June 19 - 
Dutch salvage firm Smit-Tak said it may take some three weeks to lift
the Swiss tug Orinoko and its lighter Pavo which sank 10 days ago at
Karlsruhe in West Germany, blocking the Rhine river. Smit-Tak, which
with its West German subsidiary Harms Bergung GmbH was commissioned by
the local water authorities to raise the vessels, said its lifting
fleet was in position and divers had made the first inspection. Smit
is still preparing its final salvage plan and said the work would
begin on Sunday. Reuter 

AUSTRALIAN UNIONS AND NSW GOVERNMENT REACH DEAL
    SYDNEY, April 10 - 
Union and New South Wales government officials have reached a
compromise in a dispute over workers compensation, averting increased
industrial action in the state, union sources said. But some unions,
including those of building and mining workers, said they were
dissatisfied with the deal and would continue their strikes for a few
more days. State officials said the government had agreed to revise
its proposals to cut compensation and would allow slightly higher cash
benefits for injured workers. Under the original proposal, which
sparked strikes and other industrial action in the state on April 7,
workers' compensation would have been cut by one third. Full details
of the compromise package are not yet known. The Labour Council,
affiliated to the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU), had
threatened to paralyse New South Wales unless the government modified
its pending legislation on the issue. State officials said the only
sectors affected in the past three days were some government building
projects, railway freight movement and cargo handling in Sydney's
ports. REUTER 

JAPAN FOREIGN SHIPBUILDING ORDERS FALL IN MAY
    TOKYO, June 18 - 
New foreign shipbuilding orders received by Japanese yards in May fell
to five vessels totalling 188,900 gross tons (gt) from eight ships of
314,000 gt in April, against four ships of 104,500 gt a year earlier,
the Japan Ship Exporters Association said. The backlog of orders at
end-May was 122 ships of 3.70 mln gt against 125 ships of 3.73 mln at
end-April and 233 ships of 5.99 mln a year ago, an association
official said. The world shipping recession and the yen's appreciation
against the dollar depressed May orders, he said. REUTER 

JAPAN/INDIA CONFERENCE CUTS GULF WAR RISK CHARGES
    HONG KONG, Oct 19 - 
The Japan/India-Pakistan-Gulf/Japan shipping conference said it would
cut the extra risk insurance surcharges on shipments to Iranian and
Iraqi ports to a minimum three pct from 4.5 pct on October 25. It said
surcharges on shipments of all break-bulk cargoes to non-Iraqi Arab
ports would be reduced to 3.0 pct from 4.5. A conference spokesman
declined to say why the move was taken at a time of heightened tension
in the Gulf. REUTER 

U.S. TO PROTECT ONLY AMERICAN SHIPS
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
U.S. military forces in the Mideast Gulf are under orders to protect
only American flag vessels and occasional U.S. arms deliveries on
other ships to "non-belligerent" states in the area, the Pentagon said
today. "No one has ever stated or supported a policy of protecting all
shipping in those waters," Pentagon spokesman Bob Sims said as the
Reagan Administration drew up plans to increase the protective U.S.
military presence in the gulf. Sims denied published reports that U.S.
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger sought air cover to protect all
neutral shipping in the western gulf from attacks by Iran and Iraq.
"As we have said repeatedly, only American flag vessels are under our
protection with the exception, on a limited case-by-case basis, of
ships carrying our Foreign Military Sales equipment to friendly, non-
belligerent states in the region," Sims said. U.S. warships in the
gulf two weeks ago protected a Kuwaiti ship which sailed to Bahrain
with U.S. arms for Bahrain and Kuwait. But Sims said Washington had
received assurances that the the arms would not be used elsewhere. He
said Kuwait, which is turning 11 oil tankers over to U.S. firms to fly
the American flag and be protected by the U.S. warships, is not
considered a belligerent despite Iranian charges that Kuwait is
supporting Iraq in the gulf war. Kuwaiti tankers have come under
repeated Iranian attack. Sims refused to say how the United States
will beef up its seven-ship Middle East Task Force in the gulf to
protect the 11 Kuaiti tankers. But Pentagon officials said that
additional ships and air cover are under consideration. Reuter 

CHINA RESUMES USSR SHIP REPAIRS AFTER 23 YEAR GAP
    PEKING, June 19 - 
China has resumed repairs of Soviet ships after a 23 year break caused
by the ideological split between the two countries. The New China News
Agency said an agreement to resume the business was signed by the two
sides on Wednesday in Shanghai, where three Soviet commercial vessels
were being repaired. The China Daily said the first two Soviet ships
to be repaired in China since 1964 left the ports of Dalian and
Xingang last month. Bi Yueran, managing director of China State
Shipbuilding Corp's ship repair department, told the newspaper the
Soviet Union lacked adequate repair facilities for the more than 600
ships deployed in the far east. Bi said China's yards offered
competitive prices, guaranteed quality and prompt delivery. Reuter 

RIO DE JANEIRO DOCKERS STRIKE OVER WAGES
    RIO DE JANEIRO, JUNE 18 - 
Rio de Janeiro's 3,500 dockworkers went on strike for an indefinite
period today to demand wage increases, a spokesman for the dockers
said. The Rio dockers did not get support from their colleagues in
Santos, Brazil's main port, but the spokesman said they would not
return to work unless their demands were met. Earlier this week, some
65,000 dockworkers cancelled a scheduled national strike to pressure
port officials to give them a wage increase and other benefits. A Rio
port spokesman said the halt would cause daily losses of about 100,000
U.S. dlrs. Reuter 

BELGIAN ONE-DAY STRIKE HITS TRANSPORT, SHIPPING
    BRUSSELS, June 19 - 
A 24-hour strike by Belgian public employees protesting against a
government pay offer disrupted transport and hit ferry services and
shipping, port and union officials said. Some cross-Channel ferry
services from Ostend were cancelled, the local news agency Belga said.
An Antwerp port authority spokesman said electricians came out in
support, reducing ship movements to a trickle. Unions said Ghent and
other major Belgian ports were also hit. Few trains were running and
some early morning flights by Sabena, Belgian's national airline, were
cancelled. Reuter 

ITALY WORRIED AT RISING TENSION AFTER GULF ATTACK
    ROME, Oct 19 - 
Italian Prime Minister Giovanni Goria told the cabinet on Monday he
was worried about the increased tension in the Gulf, but said
America's retaliation against Iran had been limited. A statement
issued after a cabinet meeting said Goria had been informed by the
United States that it would take action against an Iranian target in
the Gulf, but had not known beforehand that the action would involve
an attack on an oil platform. "The prime minister expressed his
concern over the possible consequences of increased tension in the
Gulf, at the same time recognizing the limited character of the
American military reaction to the attacks it has suffered in the past
few days," the statement said. Goria said Italy's own ships were far
from the platform at the time of the attack and the fleet had been
advised to follow events with caution. Italy has sent eight ships,
including three frigates and three minesweepers, to the Gulf to
protect Italian merchant shipping there. Reuter 

WORLD TELECOMS WATCHDOG RELAXES CAR PHONE RULES
    GENEVA, Oct 19 - 
The International Telecommunications Union, which regulates
communications worldwide, decided at the end of a five-week conference
to allow mobile phone systems to be linked with satellites,
telecommunications officials said. Until now, car phones have been
linked with land stations and have been limited mainly to urban areas.
The new ruling will make it easier for calls to be made from remote
regions. The meeting, which finished over the weekend, also decided to
allow a "radio determination satellite system," which would enable
fleet owners to trace to within about 15 metres the movements of their
lorries or cars or ships around the world. Reuter 

NEW CONTAINER CRANES ARRIVE AT TANZANIA PORT
    DAR ES SALAAM, Oct 20 - 
Two large container cranes donated by the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA) have arrived in Dar es Salaam where they
will help to increase the port's cargo handling capacity, port
officials said. The two new container cranes join one Danish container
crane already installed in the port, which is an important trade
outlet for Tanzania, Zambia, Malawi and eastern Zaire. Five more
cranes from Finland are due to arrive soon, increasing the container
terminal's handling capacity to 120,000 units per year from 30,000 at
present, the officials said. Reuter 

US SENATE CUTS OFF STALL TACTICS ON GULF BILL
    WASHINGTON, Oct 20 - 
Confronted by new hostilities involving U.S. forces in the Gulf, the
U.S. Senate voted to end Republican stalling tactics and limit debate
on a measure that could give Congress a larger role in Gulf policy.
The measure, however, does not require President Reagan to comply with
the 1973 War Powers Act as does a related Senate bill. The
controversial War Powers Act could require a pullout of U.S. forces
from the Gulf. The Senate voted 67-28 to stop a filibuster and limit
debate to 30 hours on a bipartisan measure that requires Reagan to
report to Congress on Gulf policy within 60 days and calls for a
resolution to be passed in the House and Senate on the situation in
the volatile waterway 30 days later. The resolution could be about any
Gulf-related issue, including an expression of support or of
disapproval for Reagan's policy of protecting 11 Kuwaiti tankers from
Iran in the waterway. The Pentagon said the 12th U.S.-protected convoy
began moving through the Gulf early Tuesday. Reuter 

AUSTRALIAN FOREIGN SHIP BAN ENDS
    SYDNEY, April 8 - 
Tug crews in New South Wales (NSW), Victoria and Western Australia
yesterday lifted their ban on foreign-flag ships carrying containers
but NSW ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute,
shipping sources said. The ban, imposed a week ago over a pay claim,
had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels,
they said. The pay dispute went before a hearing of the Arbitration
Commission today. Meanwhile, disruption began today to cargo handling
in the ports of Sydney, Newcastle and Port Kembla, they said. The
industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the week of action
called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council to protest changes to the
state's workers' compensation laws. Reuter 

NEED FOR BIGGER ALLIED FORCE IN GULF PLAYED DOWN
    WASHINGTON, June 2 - 
Secretary of State George Shultz said today that a boost in allied
forces in the Mideast Gulf was not vital to protect shipping against
attack but that possible allied contributions should be examined.
Asked if he saw the need for a greater military presence by the allies
in the gulf, Shultz told reporters, "Not necessarily, particularly,
so." But he said an adequate force was needed to deter attack and
noted that the British and the French, as well as the United States,
maintained naval contingents there. "We have to look at things that
others might do," he said. Reuter 

TAIWAN'S EVERGREEN LINE TO GO PUBLIC
    TAIPEI, June 19 - 
Liner shipping specialist <Evergreen Marine Corp>, Taiwan's largest
private company, has applied to the Security and Exchange Commission
to go public next month, a company spokeswoman told Reuters. She said
Evergreen had doubled its capital to eight billion Taiwan dlrs since
last August. "The capital increase will boost our operations," she
said. She said Evergreen will use the funds raised from the stock
market to buy new ships and step up its global services. The
spokeswoman said the company posted an after-tax profit of more than
one billion dlrs last year on total revenues of 20.46 billion,
compared to an after-tax profit of 1.18 billion on revenues of 17.99
billion in 1985. Evergreen has placed newbuilding orders for three
3,428-teu (twenty-foot equivalent unit) fully cellular container ships
with the state-owned <China Shipbuilding Corp> for delivery in late
1988. Evergreen has a fleet of 66 container vessels, totalling more
than two mln dwt, the spokeswoman said. REUTER 

PENTAGON HAS NO INFORMATION ON IRAN ATTACK RUMORS
    WASHINGTON, Oct 19 - 
A U.S. Defense Department spokesman said he had no information on
London oil and stock market rumors that the United States had launched
a retaliatory strike against Iran for an attack on Friday that damaged
a U.S. shi "I don't have anything," Major Randy Morger said. "I have
no information at all." President Reagan said on Sunday he had already
made a decision on the U.S. response to Friday's Iran attack but would
not say what the decision was. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger
said on Saturday the attack on a U.S.-flagged ship in Kuwaiti waters
on Friday was almost certainly by an Iran Silkworm missile. Some of
the rumors in the London markets were that the United States had
launched an offshore strike against Iranian missile installations.
Reuter 

KUWAIT REJECTS IRANIAN SPY BOAT CHARGES
    KUWAIT, June 2 - 
Kuwait, a target of Iranian anger over the emirate's backing for Iraq
in the Gulf war, today rejected charges that fishing vessels seized
recently by Iran were spy boats. "There are no bases of truth to the
contents of the Iranian accusation on the nature of the operations of
the vessels recently taken into custody by Iran. These vessels were
out fishing," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. It said
Iranian Charge d'Affaires Mohammad Baqeri was summoned by the Ministry
yesterday to confer with Foreign Undersecretary Suleiman Majed al-
Shaheen. The Iranian News Agency IRNA said on Sunday Iran had seized
seven Kuwaiti speed boats and detained their crew, who confessed to
spying for Iraq under the cover of fishing. It said the boats were
intercepted in the Khur Abdullah waterway which separates Kuwait and
Iraq's Faw peninsula at the head of the Gulf, captured by Iran last
year. The Kuwaiti response came as Iranian envoys toured Gulf Arab
states saying responsibility for security and stability in the
waterway was a regional matter. A U.S. Senate team was scheduled today
to meet Kuwait's Crown Prince and Prime Minister Sheikh Saad al-
Abdulla al-Sabah and the defence and oil ministers. Today's Foreign
Ministry statement, carried by the Kuwait News Agency KUNA, said the
recent detention of Kuwaiti fishing vessels by Iran was not the first.
Tehran in the past had held back a number of vessels Kuwait had sought
to release through diplomatic contacts, it said. "However, Kuwait is
perplexed that this time the Iranian charges are accompanied by
accusations that the vessels were undertaking espionage activities,"
it said. Shaheen condemned the detentions and accusations, and asked
Tehran to free all fishing boats and sailors held by Iran, the
statement said. REUTER 

