ALMOST 200 DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER
    ZEEBRUGGE, March 7 - 
There are no more survivors from a British cross-Channel ferry
disaster off the Belgian coast and almost 200 people seem certain to
have perished, a senior Belgian official said. Jacques Thas, in charge
of rescue for the Herald of Free Enterprise, said his men had searched
all of the ship except some inaccessible cabins and the control room.
"I am afraid there are no more survivors," he said. Thas said 32 of
the 543 passsengers and crew were confirmed dead and 160 were missing,
bringing the total of dead or presumed dead to 192.

B AND C REORGANISES COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS
    LONDON, March 30 - 
British and Commonwealth Shipping Co Plc <BCOM.L> said that it would
reorganise its commercial and service operations into a single public
grouping with autonomous management. The group has expanded rapidly in
the past year through the 672.5 mln stg acquisition of <Exco
International Plc> and 90 mln bid for <Steel Brothers Holdings Plc>.
It noted that its operations were now divided between financial
services, including money broking, investment management and
forfaiting, and more traditional areas such as aviation, hotels,
commodity trading and office equipment. It said that each sector had
exciting prospects but required different methods of management and
financing. B and C planned to form a new public company to hold the
commercial operations and envisaged it operating with a capital of
between 400 mln and 600 mln stg. It has retained Barclays de Zoete
Wedd to advise on the introduction of independent investors to
subscribe for additional capital, and believes that the proportion of
equity capital held by outside investors would not exceed 20 pct of
the total. The statement said that with the continued support of B and
C, together with outside capital, the new grouping would emerge as a
major group in its own right with the ability to take advantages of
opportunities as they arose. However, the group would not seek a
listing for the time being. B and C also said that its chairman, Lord
Cayzer, planned to retire in June. The company proposed that he be
appointed life president and that current chief executive John Gunn
should take over as chairman. B and C shares eased 11p to 459p at 1040
GMT.

AUSTRALIAN TUG CREWS DELAY FOREIGN CONTAINER SHIPS
    SYDNEY, April 3 - 
Tug crews are preventing the movement of foreign-flag container
vessels in and out of the ports of Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle,
shipping sources said. They said maritime unions imposed bans on late
Wednesday for reasons that are obscure but seem to be linked with
claims for a pay rise above the 10 dlrs a week awarded by the
Arbitration Commission nationally to all workers recently. Only about
10 vessels are being delayed but the bans will affect container
terminal movements and will disrupt liner schedules, they said. The
dispute goes to the Commission on Monday, they said.

IRAN SAID TO TEST FIRE SILKWORM MISSILE IN HORMUZ
    BAHRAIN, March 24 - 
Iran has test-fired its newly acquired Silkworm anti-shipping missile
in the Strait of Hormuz and has set up at least two land-based
launching sites in the area, a British naval source in the Gulf said.
The source, who declined to be identified, said Iran had fired the
Chinese-made missile at a hulk off its southern Gulf naval port of
Bandar Abbas and scored a hit. "These missiles pack a fairly big
punch," he told Reuters. "There is no doubt they could be used to
target (shipping) across the Strait of Hormuz." Tension in the Gulf
has risen since U.S. Officials last week broke the news that Iran had
acquired the Silkworm missiles. The U.S. Has said it will not allow
Iran to use the missiles to choke off oil shipments and has offered
its warships to escort Kuwaiti tankers past the missile batteries. But
Tehran denied last Sunday it intended to threaten Gulf shipping and
warned the U.S. Any interference in the region would meet a strong
response. The British naval source said the Silkworms were in place at
at least two sites around the Strait of Hormuz, but would not give the
exact location.

U.S. CARGO PREFERENCE FUNDING ACCORD SEEN NEAR
    WASHINGTON, MARCH 18 - 
The U.S. Departments of Agriculture and Transportation are close to
agreement on how to fund the increasing share of food aid to be
shipped on U.S. flag vessels under a 1985 farm bill provision on cargo
preference. Melvin Sims, USDA's general sales manager told a House
Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee hearing that the two
departments are negotiating a "memorandum of understanding" on cargo
preference. Under a 1985 farm bill provision, the percentage of food
aid shipments carried on U.S. flag vessels was to gradually increase
over three years to 75 pct in 1988. The increased cost of using U.S.
vessels was to be funded by the Transportation Department instead of
USDA. However, USDA officials said Transportation has so far
contributed no money. The agreement between USDA and Transportation is
expected to resolve the matter, USDA officials said. Tom Kay,
administrator of the USDA's Foreign Agricultural Service said
yesterday the requirement that more food aid shipments be carried on
U.S. vessels has been difficult to meet. "As the tonnage (required
under cargo preference) goes up, its going to be harder and harder to
meet," Kay said. Two farm state Congressmen, Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and
Glenn English (D-Okla.) said cargo preference makes U.S. farm export
programs more costly and the program should be eliminated. In the
past, farm interests opposed to cargo preference have been defeated in
Congress by the maritime interests who view cargo preference as vital
to the U.S. shipping fleet.

N.Z. PORTS REOPEN, BUT FURTHER DISRUPTION LIKELY
    WELLINGTON, March 23 - 
New Zealand ports reopened at 0730 hrs local time (1930 GMT March 22)
after being closed since March 19 because of a strike over pay claims
by watersiders, a Waterside Federation spokesman said. But industrial
action by other port workers is likely to cause further disruption,
Harbour Workers union secretary Ross Wilson told Reuters. Wilson said
his members are holding stopwork meetings this morning to consider
further stoppages over their pay claim. The two disputes are not
related. Harbour Workers around the country went on strike for 24
hours on March 16, but Wilson said any further action will occur on a
port-by-port basis.

ACCORD SAID IN SIGHT IN BRAZIL SEAMEN'S STRIKE
    SAO PAULO, March 19 - 
An accord is in sight in Brazil's 20-day-old national seamen's strike,
which has seriously delayed exports, a union official said. The
official, speaking from strike headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, said up
to 30,000 of Brazil's 40,000 seamen were still on strike. He said the
others had returned to work over the last week, accepting pay offers
of 120 pct from four private companies and from the Frota Nacional de
Petroleiros (Fronape), part of the state-owned oil company Petrobras.
The association grouping private shipowners, Syndarma, has also
offered 120 pct but talks have so far been deadlocked over payment for
overtime. The union official said he believed this issue would be
resolved shortly.

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN SHIPBUILDERS RECOVERY
    TOKYO, March 18 - 
Japan's ailing shipbuilding industry plans to refloat itself in a few
years from the twin rocks of recession and a strong yen through
capacity and workforce cuts and greater use of computers, industry
sources told Reuters. The salvage measures, which include a
government-sponsored rationalisation program, are aimed at clawing
back some of the market which Japan, the world leader, has lost to
South Korea through currency and labour cost disadvantages, they said.
The sources said South Korea's yards are now some 35 pct more
competitive than Japan's due to such factors. The government plans to
help the industry shed 20 pct of current capacity within two years
through mergers and regrouping under legislation put before Parliament
this month and likely to be approved by May or June, the sources said.
They said from September a semi-government body will assure repayment
of about 50 billion yen in liabilities incurred through job losses and
the sale of excess capacity, and another 30 billion for buying
unneeded land and equipment. Last Friday, the Shipbuilders Association
of Japan applied to the Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to
slash tonnage built to about half of total capacity for a year from
April 1. The commission has held several hearings with the industry
and approval should be given this month, the sources said. A clampdown
on output over one or two years combined with a planned cost-cutting
and streamlining program and state support should help Japanese yards
recover their international competitiveness, they said. Under the
cartel proposals, 33 yards each capable of building ships of more than
10,000 gross tonnes would build a maximum of three mln compensated
gross registered tonnes (CGRT) in 1987/88. This is about half of total
capacity. This will ease the cut-throat competition which forced most
yards to sign orders below cost, the sources said. The industry is
likely to seek to renew the cartel for 1988/89 as the Transport
Ministry sees new orders falling to 3.1 mln CGRT in 1988/89 from 3.3
mln in 1987/88, they said. The rationalisation program includes a cut
of 20,000 to 30,000 of the estimated 100,000 workers in the industry
between 1986 and 1989. Japanese yards topped world order books at end-
December, followed by South Korea and Taiwan, according to Lloyd's
Register of Shipping. However, falling orders and declining
international competitiveness due to the strong yen led to heavy
losses in the industry, the sources said. Four of Japan's six major
heavy machinery and shipbuilding companies reported current deficits
in the first half of the year to March 31 and five of them are
expected to report current deficits for the whole of 1986/7, they
said. The shipbuilding companies' streamlining program will raise
productivity to compete with South Korean yards which have also been
hard hit by declining orders and low ship prices in recnt years, the
sources said. In Japan, no single yard leads the industry, resulting
in fierce competition and slow progress in reducing capacity. The two
largest firms -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> and
Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co Ltd <JIMA.T> -- account for
only 30 pct of ships built, the sources said. "World shipowners hope
Japanese yards can manage to ride out the recession as their
technology is the best in the world," said an official at a major
Japanese shipping company. The Japanese merchant fleet, the largest
after Liberia's, has no intention of shifting to other countries to
buy ships, and this will encourage Japanese yards, the sources said.

JAPAN FOREIGN SHIPBUILDING ORDERS RISE IN FEBRUARY
    TOKYO, March 17 - 
New foreign shipbuilding orders received by Japanese yards in February
rose to six vessels totalling 329,999 gross tons from three ships of
79,499 tons in January, the Japan Ship Exporters Association said.
This compared with six ships of 125,150 gross tons a year earlier, an
association official said. The backlog of orders at end-February was
157 ships of 4.41 mln gross tons against 161 ships of 4.39 mln a month
earlier and 265 vessels of 6.81 mln a year earlier, an association
official said.

HAPAG ORDERS NEW CONTAINER SHIP FROM CHINA
    HAMBURG, March 31 - 
<Hapag Lloyd AG> said it ordered a new container vessel from China for
its Australia service. The order was given to the <Hudong shipyards>
in Shanghai after lengthy negotiations with West German shipbuilders,
the company said in a statement. The Chinese firm offered to build the
vessel at over 30 mln marks less than West German yards, despite
government subsidies which Bonn pays its ailing shipbuilding industry,
Hapag said. A company spokesman would not comment on the total order
value but said the new vessel would replace the 33,333 dwt Sydney
Express in 1989 and would carry 2,700 container units.

SOME SHIPPING RESTRICTIONS REMAIN ON RHINE
    BONN, March 6 - 
Limited shipping restrictions due to high water remain in force on
parts of the West German stretch of the Rhine river between the Dutch
border and the city of Mainz but most are expected to be lifted this
weekend. water authority officials said The restrictions, caused by
high water levels, include speed limits and directives to keep to the
middle of the river to prevent damage to the river banks. The high
water was expected to recede within two days to below levels at which
the restrictions come into force. Traffic was halted briefly late
Tuesday night, Wednesday and parts of Thursday on stretches of the
Rhine between Bonn and Koblenz but the shipping bans were lifted, the
officials said. Shipping is now permitted on all parts of the West
German section of the Rhine, with restrictions in some areas.

IRAN SAYS IT INTENDS NO THREAT TO GULF SHIPPING
    LONDON, March 23 - 
Iran said reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the Gulf
were baseless, and warned the U.S. And other countries not to
interfere in the region. Tehran radio, monitored by the BBC, quoted a
Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying any attempt at interference would
be met by "a strong response from Iran and other Moslems in the
world." U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger, in remarks
apparently unrelated to the broadcast, said the U.S. Would do whatever
was necessary to keep shipping lanes open in the face of new Iranian
anti-ship missiles in the Gulf. The U.S. State Department said two
days ago Tehran had been told of U.S. Concern that Iranian anti-ship
missiles posed a threat to the free flow of oil from the Gulf. U.S.
Officials have said Iran has new Chinese-made anti-ship "Silkworm"
missiles, which pose a greater threat to merchant ships than missiles
used before. The Iranian spokesman said the reports that Iran intended
to attack ships were "misleading propaganda." He said Iraq's President
Saddam Hussein was the main cause of tension in the Gulf and said Iran
would continue to use "all its legitimate means to stem the cause of
tension." Weinberger said in a television interview in the U.S. "We
are fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep the shipping going
and keep the freedom of navigation available in that very vital
waterway." "We aren't going into any disclosures or discussions of
what might happen, but we are certainly very sympathetic to and
listening carefully to any suggestions for our assistance in keeping
navigation free in that area," he said. Weinberger said U.S warship
movements in the Gulf area were not unusual. A U.S. Navy battle group
led by the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk is currently in the northern
Arabian Sea. The Iranian spokesman was quoted by Tehran radio as
saying the U.S. Was trying to build up its military presence in the
region.

SEAMAN'S STRIKE CONTINUES, MARINES UNLOAD SHIPS
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 9 - 
Brazilian marines were today working on the unloading of ships at the
local port as a national strike by 40,000 seamen entered its 10th day
without signs of an agreement. The halt, the first national strike by
seamen in 25 years, started on February 27, and union leaders said
they would not return to work unless they received a 275 pct pay rise.
Shipowners have offered a 100 pct raise, which the seamen rejected.
"Television reported that the port was operating at full speed, but
that's not true," a striking seaman told Reuters. "The marines are
doing their best, but they don't have the manpower nor the experience
to control the situation in such a quick period," he said. Port
officials said the national halt had already caused losses estimated
at 1.5 mln dlrs. Despite the presence of marines, there were no
reports of incidents.

JAPAN LINE SELLING TANKERS AND BULKERS
    TOKYO, March 16 - 
Major tanker operator, Japan Line Ltd <JLIT.T>, is selling 20 VLCCs
and several bulk carriers for scrap or further trading, industry
sources said. The tanker disposals include Japan Orchid (231,722 dwt),
Japan Lupinus (233,641 dwt), Sovereign (233,313 dwt), Rosebay (274,531
dwt), Saffron (268,038 dwt) and Cattleya (267,807 dwt), all of which
have been reported on the London sale and purchase market, they said,
but refused to give further details. Japan Line officials declined to
comment.

GULF BARGE FREIGHT HIGHER IN NEARBYS ON CALL
    ST LOUIS, April 1 - 
Gulf barge freight rates continued to show a firmer tone in the
nearbys on the assumption that changes in the Gulf posted prices will
encourage increases in both PIK-and-roll activity and barges
shipments, with a total of 21 barges traded this morning on the ST
Louis Merchants' Exchange call session, versus nine yesterday, dealers
said. Quotes included - - This week Mississippi River (Granite City,
MLA if P/O) traded at 175 pct of tariff, five percentage points above
yesterday's bid. - Next week Mississippi (Alton/Granite City, MLA if
P/O) bid five points higher at 175 pct, offered at 190. - Five barges
each week April MidMississippi River (Dubuque/south) traded at
yesterday's bid of 170 pct. - April Illinois River (ex Chicago) 160
pct bid, offered 10 points higher at 170. - May same section 140 pct
bid, offered five lower at 145. - May MidMississippi River
(Dubuque/south) bid 2-1/2 points higher at 142-1/2 pct, offered at
145. - June/July lower Mississippi River (Memphis/Cairo) offered at
120 pct, no bids. - June/Aug upper Mississippi River (Lacrosse/Savage)
offered at 150 pct, no bids. - Oct/Nov MidMississippi (Dubuque/south,
L/H Nov Clinton/south) 170 pct bid/177-1/2 offered - no comparison. -
December Illinois River (ex Chicago) 122-1/2 pct bid/127-1/2 offered -
down 2-1/2 points on offer.





AMERICAN PRESIDENT <APS> TO LEASE MORE SHIPS
    OAKLAND, Calif., March 11 - 
American President Cos Ltd said its American President Lines shipping
subsidiary obtained final approval from U.S. and Japanese authorities
to lease four new ships from Lykes Bros Co. The move will will enable
it to boost service in the Pacific by 15 pct in 1987, American
President said. The company said it will lease the ships for three
years and hold two additional three-year options. It said American
President Lines is currently operating at capacity in the Pacific and
the new ships will arrive in time for the normal demand surge of the
spring and summer seasons.

SINGAPORE TO SPEND 1.2 BILLION DLRS ON PORTS
    SINGAPORE, March 13 - 
The Port of Singapore Authority (PSA) will spend 1.2 billion dlrs to
develop port facilities and cargo-handling equipment over the next
five years, Communications Minister Yeo Ning Hong told parliament. Yeo
said the improvements were needed to cope with an expected growth of
ship tonnage and cargo handled by the port, but gave no further
details. The PSA handled 529 mln gross-registered tonnes of cargo in
1985, according to the latest available statistics from the port
authority.

CHANNEL FERRY REPORTED SINKING OFF BELGIUM
    VLISSINGEN, Netherlands, March 6 - 
The channel ferry Herald of Free Enterprise from the British Townsend
Thorensen company was sinking off the Belgian coast tonight with 463
people on board, the Dutch newsagency ANP reported today. An
unspecified number of people had fallen into the water, it said,
quoting the pilot organisation in this south-western Dutch port city
near the Belgian border. It said the vessel had capsized after a
collision but gave no more details. Dan Kaakebeen a spokesman for the
Dutch salvage firm Smit International told Reuters by telephone from
Rotterdam that the vessel was just off the Belgian port of Zeebrugge
with 463 passengers and crew when the accident occurred at 1850 GMT.
Kaakebeen said the firm had one vessel at the scene and another on its
way with divers on board. A spokesman at the port authority of nearby
Vlissingen said attempts were being made to pull the vessel into
shallow waters. Weather conditions were good with no fog or wind, and
there were many other vessels in the area.

IRAN SAID TO TEST FIRE SILKWORM MISSILE IN HORMUZ
    BAHRAIN, March 24 - 
Iran has test-fired its newly acquired Silkworm anti-shipping missile
in the Strait of Hormuz and has set up at least two land-based
launching sites in the area, a British naval source in the Gulf said.
The source, who declined to be identified, said Iran had fired the
Chinese-made missile at a hulk off its southern Gulf naval port of
Bandar Abbas and scored a hit. "These missiles pack a fairly big
punch," he told Reuters. "There is no doubt they could be used to
target (shipping) across the Strait of Hormuz."

IRAN SAYS HAS BETTER WEAPONS THAN SILKWORM
    LONDON, March 25 - 
Iranian Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi said Iran had "more
effective" missiles at its disposal than the shore-to-sea missiles
which had provoked U.S. Concern, Tehran Radio reported. A U.S. State
Department spokesman said last week Iran had acquired Chinese-made
Silkworm missiles which posed a greater threat to shipping in the Gulf
than the weapons previously used. Tehran Radio, monitored by the
British Broadcasting Corp, quoted Mousavi as saying that Tehran
officially announced after its forces overran southern Iraq's Faw
peninsula in February last year that it had shore-to-sea missiles.
"The fact that the Americans, after so much delay, are now thinking of
expressing their concern with panic is because Reagan needs this
sensation now," said Mousavi, speaking after a cabinet meeting in
Tehran. "We also announce today that these missiles are not the limit
of our war capabilities in the Gulf," he added. Mousavi said the
security of the Gulf region had nothing to do with the U.S. But Iran
would resort to any action to defend the Gulf, "even those actions
which are not thought probable by Westerners."

BRAZIL SEAMEN SAY STRIKE NEAR END
    SAO PAULO, March 25 - 
About half of Brazil's 40,000 seamen have returned to work after
accords with 22 companies, and the national strike which began on
February 27 looks close to ending, a union spokesman said. The
spokesman, speaking from strike headquarters in Rio de Janeiro,
estimated that 80 ships were strike-bound. The seamen have settled for
120 pct pay increases with the individual companies but are still
discussing the issue of overtime payments with the shipowners'
association, Syndarma.

FERRY DISASTER MAY RANK AMONG WORST TRAGEDIES
    LONDON, March 7 - 
Fading hope for passengers trapped aboard a partially-sunk Channel
ferry raised fears the accident could rank among this centuries' worst
peacetime shipping tragedies. Belgian Transport Minister Herman de
Croo said there was no hope of rescuing any of about 220 passengers
trapped in the Herald of Free Enterprise after it capsized off the
Belgian coast last night. If confirmed, the toll would make the
incident the world's worst since a Soviet liner, the Admiral Nakhimov,
collided with a freighter in the Black Sea last September and sank
with the loss of nearly 400 lives. A further 856 people were rescued.
The world's deadliest single peacetime incident at sea was the sinking
in 1912 of the Titanic with a loss of 1,500 lives. The second biggest
loss of life in peacetime was in 1914 when 1,014 people drowned when
the liner Empress of Ireland collided with a freighter on the St
Lawrence river in Canada. The world's worst maritime disaster was in
wartime that took 7,700 lives when the German liner Wilhelm Gustloff
was torpedoed by a Soviet submarine in January 30, 1945. In 1985, more
than 200 were feared dead after two ferries sank near Dhaka, 174
drowned when a ferry capsized in China and 147 died when a launch sank
off the Malaysian state of Sabah.

EUROPE SHIPPING EXPORTS TO S AFRICA OFF 40 PCT
    JOHANNESBURG, March 9 - 
The volume of European exports to South Africa carried by container
line vessels has declined 40 pct in the last two years, British
shipping executive Antony Butterwick said. Butterwick told reporters
that despite the drop and low freight rates, the shipping conference
he heads will increase the frequency of sailings to South Africa as a
"very strong act of faith and confidence" in the country's future. He
is chairman of the Europe South and South-East African Conference
Lines and joint managing director of P and O Containers Ltd. A
statement issued by the conference here said frequency of Southern
Africa/Europe container service sailings is being increased from nine
to seven days. "This is the most positive development on the shipping
front between South Africa and its main trading partners in Europe for
more than four years, when the service last operated weekly," it said.

U.S. NAVY SAID INCREASING PRESENCE NEAR GULF
    NEW YORK, April 5 - 
Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger has ordered the U.S. Navy to
increase its presence near the Gulf in an effort to fulfil President
Reagan's pledge to keep oil flowing to Europe and Japan, The New York
Times reported. The newspaper quoted Pentagon officials as saying the
Navy would keep the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk on station in the
Arabian Sea and the rest of the Indian Ocean until May, three months
longer than planned. The Navy would then have a carrier battle group
of six to eight warships in the area at all times rather than part of
the time, as happens now, the paper said. The paper said that last
month U.S. Intelligence sources said they had spotted land-based anti-
ship missiles of a Chinese design known in the West as the HY-2 near
the Strait of Hormuz. It said their purpose was seen as a signal Iran
was ready to continue and perhaps step up the Gulf shipping war
against Iraq. U.S. Carriers or battleships would sail out of range of
those missiles, but within striking distance, the paper quoted
officials as saying. From several hundred miles at sea, carriers could
launch aircraft bombing runs or missile strikes, and battleships could
fire long-range missiles, the paper said.

ABIDJAN PORT ACTIVITY RISES
    ABIDJAN, March 27 - 
The tonnage of goods passing through Ivory Coast's main port of
Abidjan rose 2.3 pct last year, according to the Ivorian Chamber of
Commerce. Its monthly report said 9.47 mln tonnes of goods passed
through the port last year compared with 9.26 mln the year before.
Exports fell to 3.75 mln from 3.89 mln tonnes while imports rose to
5.72 mln from 5.37 mln.

BERMUDA STAR LINE <BSL> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    TEANECK, N.J., March 9 - 
Bermuda Star Line Inc said it has agreed in principle to acquire
815-passenger SS Liberte from Barnstead Shipping Ltd for use in its
New York/Montreal "Northeast Passages" cruises, starting this summer.
The company said it is working to conclude a lease financing or other
financing for the purchase of the 23,500 ton vessel, which is to be
delivered in early April and renamed Canada Star. Terms were not
disclosed.

EXPERTS HAD EXPRESSED FEARS OVER RO-RO SAFETY
    LONDON, March 7 - 
As a British government investigation got under way into the sinking
of the car ferry Herald of Free Enterprise with heavy loss of life,
experts said doubts had already been expressed about the roll-on roll-
off type of ship. Shipping minister Lord Brabazon said a preliminary
investigation had started into why the 7,951 tonne ferry capsized and
sank in little over a minute as it manoeuvred to leave Zeebrugge on a
routine four hour crossing to Dover. Initial reports spoke of water
flooding the car decks through the bow doors. But a spokesman for the
owners, Townsend Thoresen, said it was also possible the ferry had
been holed. Townsend Thoresen operate two other ships identical to the
Herald of Free Enterprise, but Brabazon said it was not planned to
pull them out of service at present. "Our investigator is there
already. We shall have to wait and see. But it is too early to say
what happened," he told BBC radio. As the work of retrieving bodies
from the half-submerged hulk continued, maritime safety experts in
London said doubts had already been expressed about the design of so-
called "RoRo" ferries such as the Herald of Free Enterprise. In 1980
the Inter-Governmental International Maritime Consultative Committee
issued a report saying more roll-on roll-off vessels were lost in
accidents than ships with deck areas divided by bulkheads. Townsend
Thoresen say the ship, built at the West German yard of Bremerhaven in
1980, was built to the highest safety standards. But salvage expert
William Cooper said passengers would have had problems getting off
this type of ship because of its design. Former Townsend Thoresen
navigating officer Clive Langley said the RoRo type of vessels were
similar in some respects to a barge. "As any sailor knows it only
takes two or three inches out of line and you can turn a barge over.
An ordinary ship is compartmentalised and you have more stability," he
said. Cooper said cross-Channel ferries were normally perfectly stable
but had huge wide deck areas above the water level. "If you do get
water into that area then you can get very severe effects on the
stability of the ship," he added.

ARGENTINE PORT WORKERS TAKE INDUSTRIAL ACTION
    BUENOS AIRES, March 25 - 
Argentine port workers began an indefinite protest against safety
conditions at the port of Buenos Aires, stopping work for one hour per
shift, a press spokesman said. He said three port workers had died
over the last month in accidents. He said the decision to take action
was made after a port worker died yesterday after being electrocuted.

IRAN HAS ANTI-SHIP MISSILES NEAR GULF - PAPER
    NEW YORK, March 15 - 
Iran has deployed about six large missiles near the Strait of Hormuz
which increase the threat to shipping in the Gulf, the New York Times
said. The paper quoted U.S. Intelligence sources as saying the
missiles appeared to be of a Chinese design known as HY-2 which is
based on the Soviet SSN2 or Styx missile. Styx missiles have a range
of up to 50 miles. It said the missiles had been deployed at two sites
and quoted a naval analyst as saying they could be used to sink a
supertanker and block the Strait of Hormuz. Missiles now used by Iran
had only a fraction of the explosive power of the Styx and could sink
a supertanker only with a lucky hit, the paper said. None of the new
missiles had been fired yet, it added. The CBS television network
reported on Friday that Iran had installed new missiles along the Gulf
and said Washington had warned Tehran not to use them against civilian
shipping.

AGENCY REPORTS 39 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL
    WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - 
The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S. government agency, said in its
daily operations report that there was a backlog of 39 ships waiting
to enter the canal early today. Over the next two days it expects --
2/26 2/27 Due: 27 35 Scheduled to Transit: 35 41 End-Day Backlog: 31
25 Average waiting time tomorrow -- Super Tankers Regular Vessels
North End: 13 hrs 15 hrs South End: 4 hrs 26 hrs

TWO BRAZILIAN SHIPPING FIRMS SETTLE WITH STRIKERS
    SAO PAULO, March 12 - 
Two small shipping companies have reached a pay deal with striking
seamen, but union leaders said most of Brazil's 40,000 seamen were
still on strike. A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro said the seamen
had accepted a 120 pct pay offer from the companies, Globo and Flumar,
which have less than 200 employees each. The two-week strike comes as
Brazil faces a debt crisis and is delaying exports badly needed to
earn foreign exchange. Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto said the
government will not force a settlement of the strike, which was ruled
illegal last Friday.

BRAZIL SEAMEN CONTINUE STRIKE DESPITE COURT
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 9 - 
Hundreds of marines were on alert at 11 key Brazilian ports after
40,000 seamen decided to remain on indefinite strike, even after the
Higher Labour Court Saturday ruled it illegal, union leaders said. The
halt, the first national strike by seamen in 25 years, started on
February 27, and union leaders said they would not return to work
unless they got a 275 pct pay rise. Shipowners have offered a 100 per
cent raise, which the seamen rejected. "We have nothing to lose. If
they want to lay off the workers, fine, but we are determined to carry
on with our protest until the end," a union leader said. more He said
they had decided in a meeting that if the marines take over the ships,
the seamen would abandon the vessels and let the marines handle the
situation by themselves. A spokesman for the Rio de Janeiro Port said
the order to send marines to take over the ports was given by Navy
Minister Henrique Saboya on grounds that ports are areas of national
security. But he said there were no incidents. The strike has cut
exports and imports and made an estimated 160 ships idle. Petrol
station owners in four states also continued their shutdown and there
were fears that the combination of the two stoppages could lead to a
serious fuel shortage.

STRIKE TO CLOSE NEW ZEALAND PORTS ON MONDAY
    WELLINGTON, March 13 - 
Harbour workers said they will strike for 24 hours on Monday,
effectively closing all New Zealand's ports. The strike is over
deadlocked wage negotiations. A Harbour Employees Workers' Union
spokesman told reporters there will be no ship movements in and out of
ports from midnight on Sunday (1200 hrs GMT March 15). There will be
no loading or unloading involving harbour board workers and the Cook
Strait ferries, which provide a vital link between New Zealand's North
and South Islands, will not run, he added.

TUGS TO ATTEMPT REFLOATING KOREAN BULK CARRIER
    LONDON, April 1 - 
Seven tugs will attempt to refloat the South Korean motor bulk carrier
Hyundai New World tonight, Lloyds shipping intelligence service said
in its latest update. The vessel grounded close to Itaqui port in
Brazil last night after undocking from Ponta da Madeira terminal.
Lloyds said the 200,000 dwt vessel is carrying about 180,000 tons of
ore. Five holds are partially flooded and there is some leakage of
bunkers from double bottom tanks. At low water tide the vessel has a
list of five degrees to port and the list increases as the tide rises.

SHELL CANADA <SHC> TO SELL TANKERS TO SOCANAV
    MONTREAL, March 18 - 
Shell Canada Ltd said its Shell Canada Products Ltd unit will sell
three tankers, effective April one, 1987, to <Socanav Inc>. Terms were
not disclosed. Shell also said it will contract exclusively from
Socanav normal marine distribution requirements for domestic markets,
with some exceptions, for an initial 10-year period. Shell also said
its Shell Canadian Tankers Ltd unit will lay off 13 employees and that
Socanav will offer jobs to 41 employees. The three Shell vessels are
Lakeshell, Eastern Shell and Northern Shell, which range in size from
6,000 to 10,000 tonnes, Shell said. Shell Canada is 72 pct owned by
Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD>.

ROTTERDAM PORT SUBSIDY TO END JULY 1 - MINISTER
    ROTTERDAM, March 5 - 
Dutch Social Affairs Minister Louw de Graaf announced he is
withdrawing the annual 10 mln guilder labour subsidy for Rotterdam's
strike-hit general cargo sector as from July 1. Late last month de
Graaf said that if the dispute was not settled by Monday this week he
would withdraw the subsidy. The chairman of the port employers'
organization, SVZ, Jacques Schoufour, said he was unhappy with the
decision and added there was now no alternative to proceeding with
redundancy plans. The series of strikes in the sector started on
January 19 in protest at employers' plans to make 800 redundancies
from the 4,000-strong workforce by 1990 starting with 350 this year.
Meanwhile, the port and transport union, FNV, attacked loss figures
given for the port for this year. The figures, issued by accountants
on behalf of the SVZ, put total losses for last year at 34 mln
guilders and in 1985 at 37 mln. Earlier, the employers had put the
figure at around 30 mln. The FNV said the actual losses were nearer 17
to 20 mln and said the employers had inflated the figures as part of
their plan to restructure completely the port's general cargo sector.

KENYA SIGNS PACT TO ESTABLISH OWN SHIPPING LINE
    NAIROBI, March 4 - 
Kenya has signed an agreement with British and German interests to
establish a shipping line that will handle 40 pct of the country's
external trade, sources close to the deal said. The state-owned Kenya
Ports Authority, KPA, signed an agreement with the Hamburg-based
shipping line Unimar Seetransport to establish the Kenya National
Shipping line, with an initial capital of 100 mln shillings, sources
said. KPA will hold 70 pct of the shares in the new company. The line
will initially charter vessels to operate services between Mombasa and
the main ports of industrial Europe, but may eventually build or buy
its own ships. The sources said it would aim to carry a large part of
Kenya's coffee and tea exports and oil and fertiliser imports.

ALMOST 200 DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER
    ZEEBRUGGE, March 7 - 
There are no more survivors from a British cross-Channel ferry
disaster off the Belgian coast and almost 200 people seem certain to
have perished, a senior Belgian official said. Jacques Thas, in charge
of rescue for the Herald of Free Enterprise, said his men had searched
all of the ship except some inaccessible cabins and the control room.
"I am afraid there are no more survivors," he said. Thas said 32 of
the 543 passsengers and crew were confirmed dead and 160 were missing,
bringing the total of dead or presumed dead to 192.

B AND C REORGANISES COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS
    LONDON, March 30 - 
British and Commonwealth Shipping Co Plc <BCOM.L> said that it would
reorganise its commercial and service operations into a single public
grouping with autonomous management. The group has expanded rapidly in
the past year through the 672.5 mln stg acquisition of <Exco
International Plc> and 90 mln bid for <Steel Brothers Holdings Plc>.
It noted that its operations were now divided between financial
services, including money broking, investment management and
forfaiting, and more traditional areas such as aviation, hotels,
commodity trading and office equipment. It said that each sector had
exciting prospects but required different methods of management and
financing. B and C planned to form a new public company to hold the
commercial operations and envisaged it operating with a capital of
between 400 mln and 600 mln stg. It has retained Barclays de Zoete
Wedd to advise on the introduction of independent investors to
subscribe for additional capital, and believes that the proportion of
equity capital held by outside investors would not exceed 20 pct of
the total. The statement said that with the continued support of B and
C, together with outside capital, the new grouping would emerge as a
major group in its own right with the ability to take advantages of
opportunities as they arose. However, the group would not seek a
listing for the time being. B and C also said that its chairman, Lord
Cayzer, planned to retire in June. The company proposed that he be
appointed life president and that current chief executive John Gunn
should take over as chairman. B and C shares eased 11p to 459p at 1040
GMT.

AUSTRALIAN TUG CREWS DELAY FOREIGN CONTAINER SHIPS
    SYDNEY, April 3 - 
Tug crews are preventing the movement of foreign-flag container
vessels in and out of the ports of Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle,
shipping sources said. They said maritime unions imposed bans on late
Wednesday for reasons that are obscure but seem to be linked with
claims for a pay rise above the 10 dlrs a week awarded by the
Arbitration Commission nationally to all workers recently. Only about
10 vessels are being delayed but the bans will affect container
terminal movements and will disrupt liner schedules, they said. The
dispute goes to the Commission on Monday, they said.

IRAN SAID TO TEST FIRE SILKWORM MISSILE IN HORMUZ
    BAHRAIN, March 24 - 
Iran has test-fired its newly acquired Silkworm anti-shipping missile
in the Strait of Hormuz and has set up at least two land-based
launching sites in the area, a British naval source in the Gulf said.
The source, who declined to be identified, said Iran had fired the
Chinese-made missile at a hulk off its southern Gulf naval port of
Bandar Abbas and scored a hit. "These missiles pack a fairly big
punch," he told Reuters. "There is no doubt they could be used to
target (shipping) across the Strait of Hormuz." Tension in the Gulf
has risen since U.S. Officials last week broke the news that Iran had
acquired the Silkworm missiles. The U.S. Has said it will not allow
Iran to use the missiles to choke off oil shipments and has offered
its warships to escort Kuwaiti tankers past the missile batteries. But
Tehran denied last Sunday it intended to threaten Gulf shipping and
warned the U.S. Any interference in the region would meet a strong
response. The British naval source said the Silkworms were in place at
at least two sites around the Strait of Hormuz, but would not give the
exact location.

U.S. CARGO PREFERENCE FUNDING ACCORD SEEN NEAR
    WASHINGTON, MARCH 18 - 
The U.S. Departments of Agriculture and Transportation are close to
agreement on how to fund the increasing share of food aid to be
shipped on U.S. flag vessels under a 1985 farm bill provision on cargo
preference. Melvin Sims, USDA's general sales manager told a House
Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee hearing that the two
departments are negotiating a "memorandum of understanding" on cargo
preference. Under a 1985 farm bill provision, the percentage of food
aid shipments carried on U.S. flag vessels was to gradually increase
over three years to 75 pct in 1988. The increased cost of using U.S.
vessels was to be funded by the Transportation Department instead of
USDA. However, USDA officials said Transportation has so far
contributed no money. The agreement between USDA and Transportation is
expected to resolve the matter, USDA officials said. Tom Kay,
administrator of the USDA's Foreign Agricultural Service said
yesterday the requirement that more food aid shipments be carried on
U.S. vessels has been difficult to meet. "As the tonnage (required
under cargo preference) goes up, its going to be harder and harder to
meet," Kay said. Two farm state Congressmen, Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and
Glenn English (D-Okla.) said cargo preference makes U.S. farm export
programs more costly and the program should be eliminated. In the
past, farm interests opposed to cargo preference have been defeated in
Congress by the maritime interests who view cargo preference as vital
to the U.S. shipping fleet.

N.Z. PORTS REOPEN, BUT FURTHER DISRUPTION LIKELY
    WELLINGTON, March 23 - 
New Zealand ports reopened at 0730 hrs local time (1930 GMT March 22)
after being closed since March 19 because of a strike over pay claims
by watersiders, a Waterside Federation spokesman said. But industrial
action by other port workers is likely to cause further disruption,
Harbour Workers union secretary Ross Wilson told Reuters. Wilson said
his members are holding stopwork meetings this morning to consider
further stoppages over their pay claim. The two disputes are not
related. Harbour Workers around the country went on strike for 24
hours on March 16, but Wilson said any further action will occur on a
port-by-port basis.

ACCORD SAID IN SIGHT IN BRAZIL SEAMEN'S STRIKE
    SAO PAULO, March 19 - 
An accord is in sight in Brazil's 20-day-old national seamen's strike,
which has seriously delayed exports, a union official said. The
official, speaking from strike headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, said up
to 30,000 of Brazil's 40,000 seamen were still on strike. He said the
others had returned to work over the last week, accepting pay offers
of 120 pct from four private companies and from the Frota Nacional de
Petroleiros (Fronape), part of the state-owned oil company Petrobras.
The association grouping private shipowners, Syndarma, has also
offered 120 pct but talks have so far been deadlocked over payment for
overtime. The union official said he believed this issue would be
resolved shortly.

ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN SHIPBUILDERS RECOVERY
    TOKYO, March 18 - 
Japan's ailing shipbuilding industry plans to refloat itself in a few
years from the twin rocks of recession and a strong yen through
capacity and workforce cuts and greater use of computers, industry
sources told Reuters. The salvage measures, which include a
government-sponsored rationalisation program, are aimed at clawing
back some of the market which Japan, the world leader, has lost to
South Korea through currency and labour cost disadvantages, they said.
The sources said South Korea's yards are now some 35 pct more
competitive than Japan's due to such factors. The government plans to
help the industry shed 20 pct of current capacity within two years
through mergers and regrouping under legislation put before Parliament
this month and likely to be approved by May or June, the sources said.
They said from September a semi-government body will assure repayment
of about 50 billion yen in liabilities incurred through job losses and
the sale of excess capacity, and another 30 billion for buying
unneeded land and equipment. Last Friday, the Shipbuilders Association
of Japan applied to the Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to
slash tonnage built to about half of total capacity for a year from
April 1. The commission has held several hearings with the industry
and approval should be given this month, the sources said. A clampdown
on output over one or two years combined with a planned cost-cutting
and streamlining program and state support should help Japanese yards
recover their international competitiveness, they said. Under the
cartel proposals, 33 yards each capable of building ships of more than
10,000 gross tonnes would build a maximum of three mln compensated
gross registered tonnes (CGRT) in 1987/88. This is about half of total
capacity. This will ease the cut-throat competition which forced most
yards to sign orders below cost, the sources said. The industry is
likely to seek to renew the cartel for 1988/89 as the Transport
Ministry sees new orders falling to 3.1 mln CGRT in 1988/89 from 3.3
mln in 1987/88, they said. The rationalisation program includes a cut
of 20,000 to 30,000 of the estimated 100,000 workers in the industry
between 1986 and 1989. Japanese yards topped world order books at end-
December, followed by South Korea and Taiwan, according to Lloyd's
Register of Shipping. However, falling orders and declining
international competitiveness due to the strong yen led to heavy
losses in the industry, the sources said. Four of Japan's six major
heavy machinery and shipbuilding companies reported current deficits
in the first half of the year to March 31 and five of them are
expected to report current deficits for the whole of 1986/7, they
said. The shipbuilding companies' streamlining program will raise
productivity to compete with South Korean yards which have also been
hard hit by declining orders and low ship prices in recnt years, the
sources said. In Japan, no single yard leads the industry, resulting
in fierce competition and slow progress in reducing capacity. The two
largest firms -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> and
Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co Ltd <JIMA.T> -- account for
only 30 pct of ships built, the sources said. "World shipowners hope
Japanese yards can manage to ride out the recession as their
technology is the best in the world," said an official at a major
Japanese shipping company. The Japanese merchant fleet, the largest
after Liberia's, has no intention of shifting to other countries to
buy ships, and this will encourage Japanese yards, the sources said.

JAPAN FOREIGN SHIPBUILDING ORDERS RISE IN FEBRUARY
    TOKYO, March 17 - 
New foreign shipbuilding orders received by Japanese yards in February
rose to six vessels totalling 329,999 gross tons from three ships of
79,499 tons in January, the Japan Ship Exporters Association said.
This compared with six ships of 125,150 gross tons a year earlier, an
association official said. The backlog of orders at end-February was
157 ships of 4.41 mln gross tons against 161 ships of 4.39 mln a month
earlier and 265 vessels of 6.81 mln a year earlier, an association
official said.

HAPAG ORDERS NEW CONTAINER SHIP FROM CHINA
    HAMBURG, March 31 - 
<Hapag Lloyd AG> said it ordered a new container vessel from China for
its Australia service. The order was given to the <Hudong shipyards>
in Shanghai after lengthy negotiations with West German shipbuilders,
the company said in a statement. The Chinese firm offered to build the
vessel at over 30 mln marks less than West German yards, despite
government subsidies which Bonn pays its ailing shipbuilding industry,
Hapag said. A company spokesman would not comment on the total order
value but said the new vessel would replace the 33,333 dwt Sydney
Express in 1989 and would carry 2,700 container units.

SOME SHIPPING RESTRICTIONS REMAIN ON RHINE
    BONN, March 6 - 
Limited shipping restrictions due to high water remain in force on
parts of the West German stretch of the Rhine river between the Dutch
border and the city of Mainz but most are expected to be lifted this
weekend. water authority officials said The restrictions, caused by
high water levels, include speed limits and directives to keep to the
middle of the river to prevent damage to the river banks. The high
water was expected to recede within two days to below levels at which
the restrictions come into force. Traffic was halted briefly late
Tuesday night, Wednesday and parts of Thursday on stretches of the
Rhine between Bonn and Koblenz but the shipping bans were lifted, the
officials said. Shipping is now permitted on all parts of the West
German section of the Rhine, with restrictions in some areas.

IRAN SAYS IT INTENDS NO THREAT TO GULF SHIPPING
    LONDON, March 23 - 
Iran said reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the Gulf
were baseless, and warned the U.S. And other countries not to
interfere in the region. Tehran radio, monitored by the BBC, quoted a
Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying any attempt at interference would
be met by "a strong response from Iran and other Moslems in the
world." U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger, in remarks
apparently unrelated to the broadcast, said the U.S. Would do whatever
was necessary to keep shipping lanes open in the face of new Iranian
anti-ship missiles in the Gulf. The U.S. State Department said two
days ago Tehran had been told of U.S. Concern that Iranian anti-ship
missiles posed a threat to the free flow of oil from the Gulf. U.S.
Officials have said Iran has new Chinese-made anti-ship "Silkworm"
missiles, which pose a greater threat to merchant ships than missiles
used before. The Iranian spokesman said the reports that Iran intended
to attack ships were "misleading propaganda." He said Iraq's President
Saddam Hussein was the main cause of tension in the Gulf and said Iran
would continue to use "all its legitimate means to stem the cause of
tension." Weinberger said in a television interview in the U.S. "We
are fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep the shipping going
and keep the freedom of navigation available in that very vital
waterway." "We aren't going into any disclosures or discussions of
what might happen, but we are certainly very sympathetic to and
listening carefully to any suggestions for our assistance in keeping
navigation free in that area," he said. Weinberger said U.S warship
movements in the Gulf area were not unusual. A U.S. Navy battle group
led by the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk is currently in the northern
Arabian Sea. The Iranian spokesman was quoted by Tehran radio as
saying the U.S. Was trying to build up its military presence in the
region.

SEAMAN'S STRIKE CONTINUES, MARINES UNLOAD SHIPS
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 9 - 
Brazilian marines were today working on the unloading of ships at the
local port as a national strike by 40,000 seamen entered its 10th day
without signs of an agreement. The halt, the first national strike by
seamen in 25 years, started on February 27, and union leaders said
they would not return to work unless they received a 275 pct pay rise.
Shipowners have offered a 100 pct raise, which the seamen rejected.
"Television reported that the port was operating at full speed, but
that's not true," a striking seaman told Reuters. "The marines are
doing their best, but they don't have the manpower nor the experience
to control the situation in such a quick period," he said. Port
officials said the national halt had already caused losses estimated
at 1.5 mln dlrs. Despite the presence of marines, there were no
reports of incidents.

JAPAN LINE SELLING TANKERS AND BULKERS
    TOKYO, March 16 - 
Major tanker operator, Japan Line Ltd <JLIT.T>, is selling 20 VLCCs
and several bulk carriers for scrap or further trading, industry
sources said. The tanker disposals include Japan Orchid (231,722 dwt),
Japan Lupinus (233,641 dwt), Sovereign (233,313 dwt), Rosebay (274,531
dwt), Saffron (268,038 dwt) and Cattleya (267,807 dwt), all of which
have been reported on the London sale and purchase market, they said,
but refused to give further details. Japan Line officials declined to
comment.

GULF BARGE FREIGHT HIGHER IN NEARBYS ON CALL
    ST LOUIS, April 1 - 
Gulf barge freight rates continued to show a firmer tone in the
nearbys on the assumption that changes in the Gulf posted prices will
encourage increases in both PIK-and-roll activity and barges
shipments, with a total of 21 barges traded this morning on the ST
Louis Merchants' Exchange call session, versus nine yesterday, dealers
said. Quotes included - - This week Mississippi River (Granite City,
MLA if P/O) traded at 175 pct of tariff, five percentage points above
yesterday's bid. - Next week Mississippi (Alton/Granite City, MLA if
P/O) bid five points higher at 175 pct, offered at 190. - Five barges
each week April MidMississippi River (Dubuque/south) traded at
yesterday's bid of 170 pct. - April Illinois River (ex Chicago) 160
pct bid, offered 10 points higher at 170. - May same section 140 pct
bid, offered five lower at 145. - May MidMississippi River
(Dubuque/south) bid 2-1/2 points higher at 142-1/2 pct, offered at
145. - June/July lower Mississippi River (Memphis/Cairo) offered at
120 pct, no bids. - June/Aug upper Mississippi River (Lacrosse/Savage)
offered at 150 pct, no bids. - Oct/Nov MidMississippi (Dubuque/south,
L/H Nov Clinton/south) 170 pct bid/177-1/2 offered - no comparison. -
December Illinois River (ex Chicago) 122-1/2 pct bid/127-1/2 offered -
down 2-1/2 points on offer.





AMERICAN PRESIDENT <APS> TO LEASE MORE SHIPS
    OAKLAND, Calif., March 11 - 
American President Cos Ltd said its American President Lines shipping
subsidiary obtained final approval from U.S. and Japanese authorities
to lease four new ships from Lykes Bros Co. The move will will enable
it to boost service in the Pacific by 15 pct in 1987, American
President said. The company said it will lease the ships for three
years and hold two additional three-year options. It said American
President Lines is currently operating at capacity in the Pacific and
the new ships will arrive in time for the normal demand surge of the
spring and summer seasons.

SINGAPORE TO SPEND 1.2 BILLION DLRS ON PORTS
    SINGAPORE, March 13 - 
The Port of Singapore Authority (PSA) will spend 1.2 billion dlrs to
develop port facilities and cargo-handling equipment over the next
five years, Communications Minister Yeo Ning Hong told parliament. Yeo
said the improvements were needed to cope with an expected growth of
ship tonnage and cargo handled by the port, but gave no further
details. The PSA handled 529 mln gross-registered tonnes of cargo in
1985, according to the latest available statistics from the port
authority.

CHANNEL FERRY REPORTED SINKING OFF BELGIUM
    VLISSINGEN, Netherlands, March 6 - 
The channel ferry Herald of Free Enterprise from the British Townsend
Thorensen company was sinking off the Belgian coast tonight with 463
people on board, the Dutch newsagency ANP reported today. An
unspecified number of people had fallen into the water, it said,
quoting the pilot organisation in this south-western Dutch port city
near the Belgian border. It said the vessel had capsized after a
collision but gave no more details. Dan Kaakebeen a spokesman for the
Dutch salvage firm Smit International told Reuters by telephone from
Rotterdam that the vessel was just off the Belgian port of Zeebrugge
with 463 passengers and crew when the accident occurred at 1850 GMT.
Kaakebeen said the firm had one vessel at the scene and another on its
way with divers on board. A spokesman at the port authority of nearby
Vlissingen said attempts were being made to pull the vessel into
shallow waters. Weather conditions were good with no fog or wind, and
there were many other vessels in the area.

IRAN SAID TO TEST FIRE SILKWORM MISSILE IN HORMUZ
    BAHRAIN, March 24 - 
Iran has test-fired its newly acquired Silkworm anti-shipping missile
in the Strait of Hormuz and has set up at least two land-based
launching sites in the area, a British naval source in the Gulf said.
The source, who declined to be identified, said Iran had fired the
Chinese-made missile at a hulk off its southern Gulf naval port of
Bandar Abbas and scored a hit. "These missiles pack a fairly big
punch," he told Reuters. "There is no doubt they could be used to
target (shipping) across the Strait of Hormuz."

IRAN SAYS HAS BETTER WEAPONS THAN SILKWORM
    LONDON, March 25 - 
Iranian Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi said Iran had "more
effective" missiles at its disposal than the shore-to-sea missiles
which had provoked U.S. Concern, Tehran Radio reported. A U.S. State
Department spokesman said last week Iran had acquired Chinese-made
Silkworm missiles which posed a greater threat to shipping in the Gulf
than the weapons previously used. Tehran Radio, monitored by the
British Broadcasting Corp, quoted Mousavi as saying that Tehran
officially announced after its forces overran southern Iraq's Faw
peninsula in February last year that it had shore-to-sea missiles.
"The fact that the Americans, after so much delay, are now thinking of
expressing their concern with panic is because Reagan needs this
sensation now," said Mousavi, speaking after a cabinet meeting in
Tehran. "We also announce today that these missiles are not the limit
of our war capabilities in the Gulf," he added. Mousavi said the
security of the Gulf region had nothing to do with the U.S. But Iran
would resort to any action to defend the Gulf, "even those actions
which are not thought probable by Westerners."

BRAZIL SEAMEN SAY STRIKE NEAR END
    SAO PAULO, March 25 - 
About half of Brazil's 40,000 seamen have returned to work after
accords with 22 companies, and the national strike which began on
February 27 looks close to ending, a union spokesman said. The
spokesman, speaking from strike headquarters in Rio de Janeiro,
estimated that 80 ships were strike-bound. The seamen have settled for
120 pct pay increases with the individual companies but are still
discussing the issue of overtime payments with the shipowners'
association, Syndarma.

FERRY DISASTER MAY RANK AMONG WORST TRAGEDIES
    LONDON, March 7 - 
Fading hope for passengers trapped aboard a partially-sunk Channel
ferry raised fears the accident could rank among this centuries' worst
peacetime shipping tragedies. Belgian Transport Minister Herman de
Croo said there was no hope of rescuing any of about 220 passengers
trapped in the Herald of Free Enterprise after it capsized off the
Belgian coast last night. If confirmed, the toll would make the
incident the world's worst since a Soviet liner, the Admiral Nakhimov,
collided with a freighter in the Black Sea last September and sank
with the loss of nearly 400 lives. A further 856 people were rescued.
The world's deadliest single peacetime incident at sea was the sinking
in 1912 of the Titanic with a loss of 1,500 lives. The second biggest
loss of life in peacetime was in 1914 when 1,014 people drowned when
the liner Empress of Ireland collided with a freighter on the St
Lawrence river in Canada. The world's worst maritime disaster was in
wartime that took 7,700 lives when the German liner Wilhelm Gustloff
was torpedoed by a Soviet submarine in January 30, 1945. In 1985, more
than 200 were feared dead after two ferries sank near Dhaka, 174
drowned when a ferry capsized in China and 147 died when a launch sank
off the Malaysian state of Sabah.

EUROPE SHIPPING EXPORTS TO S AFRICA OFF 40 PCT
    JOHANNESBURG, March 9 - 
The volume of European exports to South Africa carried by container
line vessels has declined 40 pct in the last two years, British
shipping executive Antony Butterwick said. Butterwick told reporters
that despite the drop and low freight rates, the shipping conference
he heads will increase the frequency of sailings to South Africa as a
"very strong act of faith and confidence" in the country's future. He
is chairman of the Europe South and South-East African Conference
Lines and joint managing director of P and O Containers Ltd. A
statement issued by the conference here said frequency of Southern
Africa/Europe container service sailings is being increased from nine
to seven days. "This is the most positive development on the shipping
front between South Africa and its main trading partners in Europe for
more than four years, when the service last operated weekly," it said.

U.S. NAVY SAID INCREASING PRESENCE NEAR GULF
    NEW YORK, April 5 - 
Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger has ordered the U.S. Navy to
increase its presence near the Gulf in an effort to fulfil President
Reagan's pledge to keep oil flowing to Europe and Japan, The New York
Times reported. The newspaper quoted Pentagon officials as saying the
Navy would keep the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk on station in the
Arabian Sea and the rest of the Indian Ocean until May, three months
longer than planned. The Navy would then have a carrier battle group
of six to eight warships in the area at all times rather than part of
the time, as happens now, the paper said. The paper said that last
month U.S. Intelligence sources said they had spotted land-based anti-
ship missiles of a Chinese design known in the West as the HY-2 near
the Strait of Hormuz. It said their purpose was seen as a signal Iran
was ready to continue and perhaps step up the Gulf shipping war
against Iraq. U.S. Carriers or battleships would sail out of range of
those missiles, but within striking distance, the paper quoted
officials as saying. From several hundred miles at sea, carriers could
launch aircraft bombing runs or missile strikes, and battleships could
fire long-range missiles, the paper said.

ABIDJAN PORT ACTIVITY RISES
    ABIDJAN, March 27 - 
The tonnage of goods passing through Ivory Coast's main port of
Abidjan rose 2.3 pct last year, according to the Ivorian Chamber of
Commerce. Its monthly report said 9.47 mln tonnes of goods passed
through the port last year compared with 9.26 mln the year before.
Exports fell to 3.75 mln from 3.89 mln tonnes while imports rose to
5.72 mln from 5.37 mln.

BERMUDA STAR LINE <BSL> TO MAKE ACQUISITION
    TEANECK, N.J., March 9 - 
Bermuda Star Line Inc said it has agreed in principle to acquire
815-passenger SS Liberte from Barnstead Shipping Ltd for use in its
New York/Montreal "Northeast Passages" cruises, starting this summer.
The company said it is working to conclude a lease financing or other
financing for the purchase of the 23,500 ton vessel, which is to be
delivered in early April and renamed Canada Star. Terms were not
disclosed.

EXPERTS HAD EXPRESSED FEARS OVER RO-RO SAFETY
    LONDON, March 7 - 
As a British government investigation got under way into the sinking
of the car ferry Herald of Free Enterprise with heavy loss of life,
experts said doubts had already been expressed about the roll-on roll-
off type of ship. Shipping minister Lord Brabazon said a preliminary
investigation had started into why the 7,951 tonne ferry capsized and
sank in little over a minute as it manoeuvred to leave Zeebrugge on a
routine four hour crossing to Dover. Initial reports spoke of water
flooding the car decks through the bow doors. But a spokesman for the
owners, Townsend Thoresen, said it was also possible the ferry had
been holed. Townsend Thoresen operate two other ships identical to the
Herald of Free Enterprise, but Brabazon said it was not planned to
pull them out of service at present. "Our investigator is there
already. We shall have to wait and see. But it is too early to say
what happened," he told BBC radio. As the work of retrieving bodies
from the half-submerged hulk continued, maritime safety experts in
London said doubts had already been expressed about the design of so-
called "RoRo" ferries such as the Herald of Free Enterprise. In 1980
the Inter-Governmental International Maritime Consultative Committee
issued a report saying more roll-on roll-off vessels were lost in
accidents than ships with deck areas divided by bulkheads. Townsend
Thoresen say the ship, built at the West German yard of Bremerhaven in
1980, was built to the highest safety standards. But salvage expert
William Cooper said passengers would have had problems getting off
this type of ship because of its design. Former Townsend Thoresen
navigating officer Clive Langley said the RoRo type of vessels were
similar in some respects to a barge. "As any sailor knows it only
takes two or three inches out of line and you can turn a barge over.
An ordinary ship is compartmentalised and you have more stability," he
said. Cooper said cross-Channel ferries were normally perfectly stable
but had huge wide deck areas above the water level. "If you do get
water into that area then you can get very severe effects on the
stability of the ship," he added.

ARGENTINE PORT WORKERS TAKE INDUSTRIAL ACTION
    BUENOS AIRES, March 25 - 
Argentine port workers began an indefinite protest against safety
conditions at the port of Buenos Aires, stopping work for one hour per
shift, a press spokesman said. He said three port workers had died
over the last month in accidents. He said the decision to take action
was made after a port worker died yesterday after being electrocuted.

IRAN HAS ANTI-SHIP MISSILES NEAR GULF - PAPER
    NEW YORK, March 15 - 
Iran has deployed about six large missiles near the Strait of Hormuz
which increase the threat to shipping in the Gulf, the New York Times
said. The paper quoted U.S. Intelligence sources as saying the
missiles appeared to be of a Chinese design known as HY-2 which is
based on the Soviet SSN2 or Styx missile. Styx missiles have a range
of up to 50 miles. It said the missiles had been deployed at two sites
and quoted a naval analyst as saying they could be used to sink a
supertanker and block the Strait of Hormuz. Missiles now used by Iran
had only a fraction of the explosive power of the Styx and could sink
a supertanker only with a lucky hit, the paper said. None of the new
missiles had been fired yet, it added. The CBS television network
reported on Friday that Iran had installed new missiles along the Gulf
and said Washington had warned Tehran not to use them against civilian
shipping.

AGENCY REPORTS 39 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL
    WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - 
The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S. government agency, said in its
daily operations report that there was a backlog of 39 ships waiting
to enter the canal early today. Over the next two days it expects --
2/26 2/27 Due: 27 35 Scheduled to Transit: 35 41 End-Day Backlog: 31
25 Average waiting time tomorrow -- Super Tankers Regular Vessels
North End: 13 hrs 15 hrs South End: 4 hrs 26 hrs

TWO BRAZILIAN SHIPPING FIRMS SETTLE WITH STRIKERS
    SAO PAULO, March 12 - 
Two small shipping companies have reached a pay deal with striking
seamen, but union leaders said most of Brazil's 40,000 seamen were
still on strike. A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro said the seamen
had accepted a 120 pct pay offer from the companies, Globo and Flumar,
which have less than 200 employees each. The two-week strike comes as
Brazil faces a debt crisis and is delaying exports badly needed to
earn foreign exchange. Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto said the
government will not force a settlement of the strike, which was ruled
illegal last Friday.

BRAZIL SEAMEN CONTINUE STRIKE DESPITE COURT
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 9 - 
Hundreds of marines were on alert at 11 key Brazilian ports after
40,000 seamen decided to remain on indefinite strike, even after the
Higher Labour Court Saturday ruled it illegal, union leaders said. The
halt, the first national strike by seamen in 25 years, started on
February 27, and union leaders said they would not return to work
unless they got a 275 pct pay rise. Shipowners have offered a 100 per
cent raise, which the seamen rejected. "We have nothing to lose. If
they want to lay off the workers, fine, but we are determined to carry
on with our protest until the end," a union leader said. more He said
they had decided in a meeting that if the marines take over the ships,
the seamen would abandon the vessels and let the marines handle the
situation by themselves. A spokesman for the Rio de Janeiro Port said
the order to send marines to take over the ports was given by Navy
Minister Henrique Saboya on grounds that ports are areas of national
security. But he said there were no incidents. The strike has cut
exports and imports and made an estimated 160 ships idle. Petrol
station owners in four states also continued their shutdown and there
were fears that the combination of the two stoppages could lead to a
serious fuel shortage.

STRIKE TO CLOSE NEW ZEALAND PORTS ON MONDAY
    WELLINGTON, March 13 - 
Harbour workers said they will strike for 24 hours on Monday,
effectively closing all New Zealand's ports. The strike is over
deadlocked wage negotiations. A Harbour Employees Workers' Union
spokesman told reporters there will be no ship movements in and out of
ports from midnight on Sunday (1200 hrs GMT March 15). There will be
no loading or unloading involving harbour board workers and the Cook
Strait ferries, which provide a vital link between New Zealand's North
and South Islands, will not run, he added.

TUGS TO ATTEMPT REFLOATING KOREAN BULK CARRIER
    LONDON, April 1 - 
Seven tugs will attempt to refloat the South Korean motor bulk carrier
Hyundai New World tonight, Lloyds shipping intelligence service said
in its latest update. The vessel grounded close to Itaqui port in
Brazil last night after undocking from Ponta da Madeira terminal.
Lloyds said the 200,000 dwt vessel is carrying about 180,000 tons of
ore. Five holds are partially flooded and there is some leakage of
bunkers from double bottom tanks. At low water tide the vessel has a
list of five degrees to port and the list increases as the tide rises.

SHELL CANADA <SHC> TO SELL TANKERS TO SOCANAV
    MONTREAL, March 18 - 
Shell Canada Ltd said its Shell Canada Products Ltd unit will sell
three tankers, effective April one, 1987, to <Socanav Inc>. Terms were
not disclosed. Shell also said it will contract exclusively from
Socanav normal marine distribution requirements for domestic markets,
with some exceptions, for an initial 10-year period. Shell also said
its Shell Canadian Tankers Ltd unit will lay off 13 employees and that
Socanav will offer jobs to 41 employees. The three Shell vessels are
Lakeshell, Eastern Shell and Northern Shell, which range in size from
6,000 to 10,000 tonnes, Shell said. Shell Canada is 72 pct owned by
Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD>.

ROTTERDAM PORT SUBSIDY TO END JULY 1 - MINISTER
    ROTTERDAM, March 5 - 
Dutch Social Affairs Minister Louw de Graaf announced he is
withdrawing the annual 10 mln guilder labour subsidy for Rotterdam's
strike-hit general cargo sector as from July 1. Late last month de
Graaf said that if the dispute was not settled by Monday this week he
would withdraw the subsidy. The chairman of the port employers'
organization, SVZ, Jacques Schoufour, said he was unhappy with the
decision and added there was now no alternative to proceeding with
redundancy plans. The series of strikes in the sector started on
January 19 in protest at employers' plans to make 800 redundancies
from the 4,000-strong workforce by 1990 starting with 350 this year.
Meanwhile, the port and transport union, FNV, attacked loss figures
given for the port for this year. The figures, issued by accountants
on behalf of the SVZ, put total losses for last year at 34 mln
guilders and in 1985 at 37 mln. Earlier, the employers had put the
figure at around 30 mln. The FNV said the actual losses were nearer 17
to 20 mln and said the employers had inflated the figures as part of
their plan to restructure completely the port's general cargo sector.

KENYA SIGNS PACT TO ESTABLISH OWN SHIPPING LINE
    NAIROBI, March 4 - 
Kenya has signed an agreement with British and German interests to
establish a shipping line that will handle 40 pct of the country's
external trade, sources close to the deal said. The state-owned Kenya
Ports Authority, KPA, signed an agreement with the Hamburg-based
shipping line Unimar Seetransport to establish the Kenya National
Shipping line, with an initial capital of 100 mln shillings, sources
said. KPA will hold 70 pct of the shares in the new company. The line
will initially charter vessels to operate services between Mombasa and
the main ports of industrial Europe, but may eventually build or buy
its own ships. The sources said it would aim
FERRY DISASTER CLAIMS COULD TOP 30 MLN STG
    LONDON, March 9 - 
U.K. Insurers could face more than 30 mln stg of insurance claims
following the Zeebrugge ferry disaster, a spokesman for Lloyds of
London said. It could take weeks before the extent of the compensation
claims for passengers, crew and cargo was known and also before it was
known how much, if any, of the ship could be salvaged, said David
Larner of Lloyds. The hull and machinery of the Herald of Free
Enterprise were valued at 25 mln stg and were insured by Townsend
Thoresen's parent company Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co
Plc <PORL.L>. The vessel was in turn reinsured in the London market
with Lloyds and various other companies, Larner said. Passengers, crew
and cargo were insured by the Standard Steamship Protection and
Indemnity Association, one of several shipowners' mutual insurance
funds worldwide. These were also underwritten by Lloyds and other
companies. Larner said claims from passengers could be expected to
total at least five mln stg, given the number of deaths and the normal
level of liability set by the Athens Convention of 1974 of between
30,000 stg and 50,000 in case of death. Shipping sources said,
however, that these claims could soar if a court found there was
negligence or design faults involved. Larner said estimates of
compensation claims "were pure guess work" at this time. But if the
ship could not be salvaged, the claims would total at least 30 mln
stg. Shares of insurances on the London stock exchange fell across the
board in a generally weak market. General Accident fell 21p to 936,
Royal Insurance dropped 18p to 966 and Prudential fell 9p to 888. P
and O shares stood at a late 616, 27p lower on the day.

LONDON METAL FREIGHTS
    LONDON, April 1 - Enquiries - 
Rotterdam/Karachi 20,000/21,000 mt shredded scrap 7,000/1,100 15-30/4.
Bin Qasim/Shanghai 25,000 mt pig iron 1,500 fhex/1,200 shex 1-10/4.
Chungjin/Manila 4,200 mt steel coils 800/liner discharge 23-30/4.
Bilbao/one port Vietnam 5,000 mt steels fio 1,000/500 end April
Singapore/Mizushima 6,000/10,000 mt steel scrap fiot 1,200/3,00
2-12/4.

U.S. CARGO PREFERENCE SQUABBLE CONTINUES
    WASHINGTON, March 31 - 
The U.S. Agriculture Department said it will begin charging interest
tomorrow on the over 12 mln dlrs the Department of Transportation,
DOT, owes USDA to pay for its share of the cost of shipping food aid
on U.S. vessels. USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims told the
Senate Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee his department had
billed DOT 12 mln dlrs, and that interest on that amount and an
additional charge would begin accruing April 1. USDA's Foreign
Agricultural Service Administrator Thomas Kay told Reuters DOT could
owe USDA as much as 20 mln dlrs. The two departments are trying to
hammer out an accord on how to fund the increasing share of food aid
required to be shipped on U.S. flag vessels under a 1985 farm bill
provision on cargo preference. Sims said the agencies were near to
reaching a memorandum of understanding governing how DOT would pay for
its share of the cargo preference costs. Under the 1985 bill, the
percentage of food aid shipments carried on U.S. vessels was to
increase gradually over three years to 75 pct in 1988 from 50 pct.
Although the increased cost was to be funded by DOT, Sims said that
department to date has contributed no money.

GULF BARGE FREIGHT RATES UP FURTHER ON CALL
    ST LOUIS, Feb 26 - 
Gulf barge freight rates firmed again on the outlook for steady vessel
loadings at the Gulf, increasing the demand for barges to supply those
ships, dealers said. No barges traded today on the St Louis Merchants'
Exchange call session, versus 29 yesterday. Quotes included - -
Delivery this week on the Illinois River (Joliet) 135 pct of tariff
bid/140 offered, with next week same river (ex Chicago) quoted the
same - both up 2-1/2 percentage points. - Next week Mississippi River
(St Louis) 120 pct bid/127-1/2 offered - up five points. - Next week
Ohio River (Owensboro/south) 125 pct bid/132-1/2 offered - up 7-1/2
points. - On station Illinois River (south Chicago) 135 pct bid/140
offered - no comparison. - March Illinois (ex Chicago) 132-1/2 pct
bid/140 offered - up 2-1/2 points. - March Ohio River bid at
yesterday's traded level of 125 pct, offered at 132-1/2. - March lower
Mississippi River (Memphis/Cairo) 112-1/2 pct bid/120 offered - no
comparison. - May Illinois River (ex Chicago) 100 pct bid/107-1/2
offered - no comparison. - Sept/Nov Lower Mississippi River
(Memphis/Cairo) 137-1/2 pct bid/145 offered, with Sept/Dec same
section 125 pct bid/135 offered - no comparison.

MIDMISSISSIPPI RIVER OPENS TODAY FOR SEASON
    CHICAGO, March 6 - 
The Mississippi River is now open for barge traffic up to the Twin
Cities in Minnesota after repairs were completed and the first barges
moved upstream through Lock and Dam 20 near Quincy, Ill at 0600 CST
today, an Army Corps of Engineers spokesman said. About 14 to 15
inches of ice were reported between locks three and four on the upper
Mississippi River, but other sections were generally free of ice, the
spokesman said. Midwestern weather has been so mild that barges
probably could have kept loading at Mid-Mississippi River terminals
through the winter, if Lock and Dam 20 had not been scheduled for
repairs, he said. The Peoria and La Grange locks on the Illinois River
are still scheduled to close July 13, for two months of repairs.

PANAMA CANAL OFFICIAL CONFIRMS NO 1988 TOLL RISE
    LONDON, March 19 - 
Panama Canal toll charges will not rise in the year to end-September
1988, despite last October's landslide which dumped 0.5 mln cubic
yards of debris into the waterway, Canal Commission Administrator
Dennis McAuliffe said. He told a press conference that in confirming
the Commission's earlier announcement of unchanged tolls for 1988, he
was not necessarily implying there would be a rise in 1989. The canal
would probably make a five to six mln dlr loss in the current
financial year but this could be carried over and met from next year's
revenues. This year's deficit resulted from the landslide which cost
the canal about 15 mln dlrs, McAuliffe said. This included eight to
nine mln dlrs in immediate costs with the rest being spent on earth-
moving operations to prevent any further landslides. He said the
landslide was not caused by deforestation and he described as grossly
exaggerated reports that there was any threat to the canal's water
supply in the foreseeable future. Studies concerning the possibility
of widening the Gaillard cut would not be affected by the landslide,
he said, adding that he expected the canal board to determine whether
and when the canal needed widening by January 1988 at the latest.

CSX <CSX> UNIT SETS IMPROVED SHIPPING SERVICE
    MENLO PARK, N.J., March 9 - 
CSX Corp's Sea-Land Corp unit said it will offer improved
containership services between Puerto Rico and the East Coast and Gulf
Coast of the United States, beginning March 16. The carrier said it
will provide shorter door-to-door transit times, more convenient cargo
availability and better rail connections for traffic moving between
Puerto Rico and North America.

COURT PUTS INJUNCTION ON DUTCH PORT REDUNDANCIES
    ROTTERDAM, March 13 - 
Employers in Rotterdam port's strike-hit general cargo sector have
been served with an injunction until May 7 preventing them from
continuing with plans for 350 redundancies this year, an employers'
organisation spokesman said. An Amsterdam court yesterday ruled there
had been a legal fault in the employers' redundancy procedure. The
employers' spokesman said they were likely to restart the redundancy
procedure afresh next week in an attempt to pre-empt the May 7 final
court ruling. Port and transport union representative Paul Rosenmuller
described the court ruling as a victory for the union, but added there
was still a long way to go before the dispute that has hit the general
cargo sector for the past eight weeks was resolved. Rosenmuller said
there would be a meeting of the sector's 4,000 workers this afternoon
to decide on further action in the campaign of lightning strikes that
began on January 19 in protest at planned redundancies of 800,
starting with 350 this year. The employers said there were no
immediate plans for meetings with the union either on the proposed
redundancies or on a new work practice agreement in the sector.
Meanwhile, discussions on a new work agreement in the port's grain
sector, due to resume next week, are stalemated, although agreement
could be close in the coal and ore sector, the employers' spokesman
added.

DUTCH PORT UNION CALLS OFF GENERAL CARGO STRIKES
    ROTTERDAM, March 13 - 
Dutch port and transport union, FNV, has called off the strikes
against planned redundancies that have hit Rotterdam port's general
cargo sector for the past eight weeks, strike leader Paul Rosenmuller
told a mass meeting. The decision followed yesterday's ruling by an
Amsterdam court preventing the sector's employers continuing with
current plans for 350 redundancies this year until the court sits
again on May 7, Rosenmuller told a meeting of the general cargo
sector's 4,000 workers today. The court ruled the employers had made a
mistake in the complicated legal procedure for obtaining official
permission for the redundancies, and therefore could not proceed.
"There is no need to continue the strikes for the moment now the
immediate pressure of redundancies has been lifted," Rosenmuller said.
But he added that the strikes, which began on January 19 in protest
against plans for 800 redundancies by 1990, could resume at any time
before May 7 if the employers made any moves to re-apply for
permission for the redundancies. SVZ labour relations manager Gerrard
Zeebregts said they would be meeting their lawyers today with a view
to re-applying for this permission next week in the hope of gaining
approval for the redundancies within a month.

BLIZZARD CLOSES BOSPHORUS
    ISTANBUL, March 5 - 
Blizzard conditions halted shipping through the Bosphorus waterway and
piled snow up to 70 cms deep in central Istanbul, paralysing the city
for the second day running. Snow whipped by 48 kph winds continued to
fall on Istanbul and northwest Anatolia after 36 hours and weather
reports predicted no relief for another two days. Port officials said
at least six large vessels in the Black Sea and 13 in the Sea of
Marmara were waiting for conditions to improve. Istanbul's Ataturk
international airport has been closed since yesterday.

CHINA SIGNS WORLD BANK LOAN FOR TIANJIN PORT
    PEKING, March 2 - 
China has signed a 130 mln dlr loan agreement with the World Bank to
partly finance 12 new berths with an annual capacity of 6.28 mln
tonnes at the 20 mln tonne a year capacity Tianjin port, the New China
News Agency said. China will provide 370 mln yuan for the project and
a Chinese company won a bid against 12 other firms from seven
countries to do the foundation work, it said. It said 11 of the new
berths will be able to handle ships of more than 10,000 tonnes, three
will handle containers and the expansion will enable the port to
handle coke, non-metal mineral ores and mining equipment for the first
time.

LIBERIAN SHIP GROUNDED IN SUEZ CANAL REFLOATED
    LONDON, March 27 - 
A Liberian motor bulk carrier, the 72,203 dw tonnes Nikitas Roussos,
which was grounded in the Suez canal yesterday, has been refloated and
is now proceeding through the the canal, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence
said.

AUSTRALIAN UNIONS LAUNCH NEW SOUTH WALES STRIKES
    SYDNEY, April 8 - 
Australian trade unions said they have launched week-long strikes and
other industrial action in New South Wales (NSW) to protest against
new laws that would reduce injury compensation payments. Union sources
said talks with the state government broke down last night, but the
two sides are scheduled to meet later today in an attempt to find a
compromise. Rail freight and shipping cargo movements in the country's
most populous state were the first to be affected, and union officials
said almost every business sector will be hit unless there is a quick
settlement. The state government recently introduced a new workers'
compensation act which would cut the cash benefits to injured workers
by up to a third. The act is now awaiting parliamentary ratification.
NSW state premier Barrie Unsworth has said workers' compensation has
risen steeply in recent years and the proposed cuts would save
hundreds of mlns of dollars a year. Union officials said industrial
action could spread to other states as the federal government also
plans to make sharp cuts in workers' compensation.

TURKISH SHIP HEADED FOR FLORIDA AFTER EXPLOSION
    LONDON, March 12 - 
The Turkish ore/bulk/oil vessel Obo Engin, 78,078 tonnes dwt, had an
explosion in its boiler yesterday, Lloyds shipping Intelligence
Service reported. The vessel has retained some power and yesterday
evening was in position Lat. 25 57 N., Long. 75 06 W. It is diverting
to Jacksonville, Florida, with its cargo of 58,000 tons of coal. The
vessel was bound for Iskenderun, Turkey from Lake Charles.

TWO BRAZILIAN SHIPPING FIRMS SETTLE WITH STRIKERS
    SAO PAULO, March 13 - 
Two small shipping companies reached a pay deal with striking seamen
late yesterday, but union leaders said most of Brazil's 40,000 seamen
were still on strike. A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro said the
seamen had accepted a 120 pct pay raise offer from the companies,
Globo and Flumar, which have less than 200 employees each. The two-
week strike comes as Brazil faces a debt crisis and is delaying
exports badly needed to earn foreign exchange. Labour Minister Almir
Pazzionotto said the government will not force a settlement of the
strike, which was ruled illegal last Friday.

BERMUDA STAR <BSL> LEASES VESSEL
    TEANECK, N.J., APril 7 - 
Bermuda Star Line Inc said it has leased a 23,500 ton passenger vessel
from Orley Shipping Co Inc, of Liberia for a term with options
extending for 15 years. The vessel, SS Liberte, will be renamed the
Canadian Star and will be used for cruises to Montreal from New York,
beginning in June. Orley SHipping is partially owned by Common
Brothers PLC, a U.K. maritime firm which owns 60 pct of Bermuda Star's
shares and arranged debt financing for the ship's purchase. Orley
acquired the vessel from Banstead Shipping Ltd. Terms were not
disclosed.

BRAZILIAN BANK WORKERS DECIDE ON NATIONAL STRIKE
    CAMPINAS, Brazil, March 16 - 
Brazilian bank workers voted to launch a nationwide strike this month,
compounding labour unrest arising from the failure of the government's
anti-inflation plan. At a rally in this city, about 100 km northwest
of Sao Paulo, about 5,000 bank workers voted to strike on March 24
unless their demand for 100 pct pay rises is met. Wilson Gomes de
Moura, president of the national confederation which groups the bank
employees' 152 unions representing 700,000 workers, told Reuters the
indefinite stoppage would affect all banks. The vote came as a
stoppage by seamen entered its third week and as 55,000 oil workers
threatened action against the state-owned petroleum company Petrobras.

TALKS FAIL TO END BRAZILIAN SEAMEN'S STRIKE
    SAO PAULO, Brazil, March 5 - 
Pay talks aimed at ending a week-old national seamen's strike
collapsed today and the strike will continue, a union official said.
The walkout by Brazil's 40,000 seamen has idled 160 ships in various
ports, Jorge Luis Leao Franco, a senior official of the National
Merchant Marine Union, told Reuters. The strikers, who are seeking a
275 pct pay increase, have rejected offers of a 100 pct raise from the
state oil company Petrobras and an 80 pct increase from the National
Union of Maritime Navigation Companies (Syndarma). Leao Franco said
eight hours of talks in Rio de Janeiro with Labor Minister Almir
Pazzianotto ended today without resolving the dispute. He said six
ships were idle abroad -- in the Netherlands, Spain, Venezuela, France
and South Africa. Economic analysts said the strike was of major
concern to the government, which has suspended interest payments on
part of Brazil's foreign debt following a drastic deterioration in the
country's trade balance. The head of the National Merchant Marine
Authority, Murilo Rubens Habbema, was quoted today as saying that if
the strike continued foreign ships could be authorized to transport
Brazilian exports. "Brazil is living through a crisis at the moment
and it is not conceivable that exports be hit," he told the Gazeta
Mercantil newspaper.

LONDON ORE ENQUIRIES/FIXTURES
    LONDON, April 1 - Enquiries - 
South Africa/Salvador, Brazil 15,000 long tons manganese ore
2,500/1,500 end April. Callao/Crotone 5,000 mt minerals 4,000/2,000
spot. Geraldton/Tampico 13,500 mt bulk mineral sands fio 10,000/2,000
1-10/5. Itea/Dunkirk 20,000 mt bauxite seven days all purposes
10-13/4. Tampico/North Spain 15,000 mt ore two days shinc/3,000 shex
5-25/4. One port German North Sea/USG 10,500 mt bulk ore 2,500/4,000
7-13/4.

JAPANESE SHIPYARDS TO FORM CARTEL, CUT OUTPUT
    TOKYO, March 30 - 
Japan's ailing shipyards have won approval from the Fair Trade
Commission to form a cartel to slash production to about half of total
capacity for one year, effective April 1, industry sources said. The
approval follows an act of parliament passed last week designed to
help the industry regroup and shed 20 pct of capacity by March 31,
1988, Transport Ministry officials said. The cartel, comprising 33
yards capable of constructing ships of more than 10,000 gross tonnes,
will limit newbuilding output to a maximum of three mln compensated
gross registered tonnes in 1987/88, the Shipbuilders Association of
Japan said. Industry sources said the 33 will seek to renew the cartel
in 1988/89 in the belief demand will remain sluggish. Last week's
temporary act of parliament also allows shipbuilders to receive
favourable taxation terms plus up to 50 billion yen in compensation
for liabilities incurred through job losses and the sale of excess
capacity. Up to 30 billion yen has been allocated for purchasing
redundant land and equipment from shipbuilders. The Ministry will
start drawing up its restructuring guidelines from April 1 and the
yards will implement the guidelines from September, industry sources
said.

UNITED STATES LINES LAYS OFF FAR EAST STAFF
    HONG KONG, March 27 - 
<United States Lines Inc> has laid off 260 employees, almost its
entire Far East staff, its Hong Kong office general manager Elliott
Burnside told Reuters. He also said calls by two of its container
ships to Busan, South Korea and Kaohsiung, Taiwan, had been cancelled.
He declined comment on local press reports that U.S. Lines planned to
suspend operations because of failure to restructure its 1.27 billion
U.S. Dlr debt, but said the firm would make an announcement later
today. U.S. Lines filed for protection from its creditors under
Chapter Eleven of the U.S. Federal law last November. The English-
language South China Morning Post said U.S. Lines decided yesterday to
sell its two remaining transpacific service fleets and assets and
those of its U.S.-South America operation. It quoted a letter by
company's chief executive Charles Hiltzheimer that said the ships and
assets will be bought by rival U.S. Shipping companies, subject to
approval by their boards. U.S. Lines' Far East operations comprise
offices in Hong Kong, Singapore, Manila, Busan, Seoul, Tokyo,
Yokohama, Kobe and Osaka, Burnside said.

WORK AT CHITTAGONG PORT HALTED BY STRIKE
    CHITTAGONG, Bangladesh, March 11 - 
Cargo handling remains halted at Bangladesh's Chittagong port since
nearly 7,000 workers walked out on Monday following a pay dispute, the
Port Workers Association said today. Fourteen ships are stranded at
the port. Port officials said they would meet Association leaders
today to try to resolve the dispute.

DUTCH PARLIAMENT OFFERS LITTLE HELP IN PORT ROW
    ROTTERDAM, March 11 - 
Dutch members of parliament said they could do little to help resolve
the dispute over redundancies in Rotterdam port's general cargo sector
and urged the union and employers to sort out their differences
themselves. Both sides gave evidence to the all-party standing
committee on Social Affairs today, but committee members said they saw
little chance of parliamentary intervention. The dispute began on
January 19 in protest at employers' plans for 800 redundancies from
the 4,000-strong workforce, starting with 350 this year. The port and
transport union, FNV, is to challenge the redundancies in an Amsterdam
court tomorrow.

STORMY WEATHER TO DISRUPT NORTH SEA SHIPPING
    STATE COLLEGE, PA., March 27 - 
Very stormy weather is likely in the North Sea through Saturday,
disrupting shipping in the region, private forecaster Accu-Weather Inc
said. Rain will accompany the strong winds that are expected over the
North Sea today into tonight. Saturday will also be very windy and
cooler with frequent showers. Winds today will be southwest at 30 to
60 mph, but will become west to northwest tonight and Saturday at 25
to 50 mph. Waves will build to 20 to 30 feet today and tonight and
continue Saturday. Wind and waves will not diminish until late in the
weekend.

THAILAND BUYS YUGOSLAV CRANES IN BARTER DEAL
    BANGKOK, March 31 - 
The Cabinet approved a plan for the Port Authority of Thailand to buy
six gantry cranes from Metalna Co of Yugoslavia for about 13.4 mln
dlrs, a government spokesman said. He said Thailand will pay for 25
pct of the cost of the cranes in U.S. Dlrs and the rest by sales of
rice, textiles and other commodities to Yugoslavia. The Bangkok
Shipowners and Agents Association has appealed to the government to
scrap the purchase plan. It said it would be an unnecessary expense as
most vessels calling at the port already have their own cargo handling
equipment.

STRIKING BRAZILIAN SEAMEN HOLD PAY TALKS
    SAO PAULO, March 5 - 
Striking Brazilian seamen, who say they have made idle 158 ships and
halted Brazilian exports, today held pay talks in Rio de Janeiro with
Labour Minister Almir Pazzianotto, union officials said. Jorge Luis
Leao Franco, a senior official of the National Merchant Marine Union,
told Reuters he was optimistic the talks would lead to an end of the
stoppage, which began last Friday. Brazil's 40,000 seamen are seeking
a pay rise of 275 pct. The union official said the strike had halted a
total of 158 vessels, including 50 in Brazil's main port, Santos, and
about 50 more in Rio de Janeiro. Abroad, six ships lay idle, in the
Netherlands, Spain, Venezuela, France and South Africa, he said.
Economic analysts said the strike was of serious concern to the
government, which has already had to suspend interest payments on part
of Brazil's foreign debt following a drastic deterioration in the
country's trade balance. The head of the National Merchant Marine
Authority, Murilo Rubens Habbema, was quoted in today's Gazeta
Mercantil newspaper as saying that if the strike continued foreign
ships could be authorized to transport Brazilian exports. "Brazil is
living through a crisis at the moment, and it is not conceivable that
exports be hit," he said. "But even using foreign ships we must not
forget that we are going to lose foreign exchange paying freight
charges abroad, and all this through the fault of the seamen," Rubens
Habbema said. A spokesman for the port of Santos, which has been the
scene of labour unrest and congestion in recent months, said movement
of ships out of the port was running at about half its normal level of
12 ships a day. He said a total of 76 ships were either waiting at
anchor on moored in the harbour.

SENATOR LUGAR CALLS FOR CARGO PREFERENCE REPEAL
    WASHINGTON, March 11 - 
The senior Republican on the U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee,
Richard Lugar of Indiana, called for repeal of the cargo preference
law that aids the American shipping industry but which he said hurts
farmers. "Cargo preference is a costly special interest operated at
the expense of American farmers and dockworkers," Lugar said in
signing on as a co-sponsor or cargo preference repeal legislation. The
law requires shipment of U.S. goods on American ships rather than
foreign vessels which are less costly.

BRAZILIAN LABOUR UNREST SPREADS, MANY BANKS SHUT
    SAO PAULO, March 25 - 
Brazil's labour unrest is spreading, with many banks, universities and
government statistical offices on strike and more pay disputes
looming. Bankworkers' leaders said that a national strike launched
yesterday to press for a 100 pct immediate pay rise and monthly salary
adjustments had the support of most of the 700,000 workforce. The
strike today closed the stock exchanges of Sao Paulo and Rio de
Janeiro. For the government the one positive development on the labour
front was the gradual return to work of the nation's 40,000 seamen,
who began a national strike on February 27. A union spokesman in Rio
de Janeiro told Reuters about half the seamen had returned to work
after accords with 22 companies and that the strike looked close to an
end. Otherwise the labour scene looked bleak, with the bank strike
posing the most serious problems for Brazil's crisis-laden economy.
"If this goes on for more than a few days it will have a serious
effect because normal financial operations will grind to a halt," said
a western diplomat in Sao Paulo. Today Brazil's 50,000 university
teachers in the 42 federal universities launched a national strike,
with a broad political demand as well as a pay claim. David Fleischer,
head of the political science department in Brasilia university, told
Reuters the National Association of Higher Education Teachers wanted a
full congressional inquiry into what had happened to government
education funds. He said the universities were strapped for cash and
that the association suspected the junior partner in the coalition
government, the Liberal Front Party, PFL, of using education funds for
projects which had helped their candidates in elections. The PFL holds
the Education Ministry. Hardly any sectors of the economy are proving
immune to the current labour unrest, caused by the return of high
inflation, officially pegged at 33 pct for January-February. Other
possible strikes looming include stoppages by oil industry workers and
social security workers.

DUTCH PORT UNION TO MEET PARLIAMENTARIANS TODAY
    ROTTERDAM, March 11 - 
Dutch port and transport union, FNV, is presenting its case against
800 planned redundancies in Rotterdam's general cargo sector to
parliament's standing committee on social affairs today, a union
spokesman said. With 285 of the 4,000-strong workforce on strike, the
union will tell the committee the government has a duty to help solve
the dispute that has been disrupting the general cargo sector for more
than seven weeks, the spokesman added. The union will also take its
case against the redundancies, 350 of them planned for this year, to a
court in Amsterdam tomorrow, he added.

GALE FORCE WINDS BUFFET GREAT LAKES
    Kansas City, March 9 - 
The National Weather Service said warnings of gale force winds
remained in effect over lakes Erie, Huron and Michigan. Also, warnings
have been posted for large waves and beach erosion along the shores of
the Lakes. Winds gusting to 45 mph caused four to six foot waves along
the western and southern shores of Lake Michigan during the morning.
Advisories for low wind chill temperatures have also been posted
across portions of upper Michigan and northern lower Michigan. Early
morning gusty winds brought the wind chill to 15 and 25 degrees below
zero. Freezing rain was scattered over central Colorado by mid
morning, also over central Kansas and northeast Illinois. Snow reached
from south central Montana across Wyoming, western Nebraska and
western Kansas. Snow also extended across northern Wisconsin, upper
Michigan and northern lower Michigan. Rain reached along the northern
Pacific Coast, across northwest Utah, Maryland, Deleware, Virginia,
the Carolinas, Georgia and northern Alabama.

LONDON GRAIN FREIGHTS
    LONDON, March 9 - FIXTURE - 
wheat Ria Luna 20,000 mt Norrkoping and Djuron/EC Mexico 12.50 dlrs
option loading Uddevalla at 50 cents less 4,000/1,500 16-23/3
Continental. Reference New York Grain Freights 2 of March 6, brokers
say the charterer of the Saturn from US Gulf to Japan is reported to
be Nordstrom and Thulin, while the Antigone is reported to have been
arranged from Tilbury to the Black Sea by Soviet charterers.

U.S. SAYS NO SIGNAL BEING SENT BY SHIP MOVEMENTS
    WASHINGTON, March 19 - 
A U.S. Navy battle group led by the U.S. aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk
is in the northern Arabian Sea amid renewed concern about the safety
of shipping off the coast of Iran, U.S. officials said today. But
Pentagon spokesman Fred Hoffmann said that reports the naval strike
force was in the region did not mean the United States was sending a
new warning to Iran against escalating attacks on shipping in the
Persian Gulf. "Nothing like that has happened," he said. "No signal is
being sent." He said that the Kitty Hawk is operating in an area where
it usually does. "It's normal. It's in the waters where it's supposed
to be. It's been there for over a month." The Kitty Hawk and its force
of warplanes is the mainstay of the U.S. Indian Ocean Battle Group
which patrols a vast area extending from the Indian subcontinent
through the Arabian Sea. With the Kitty Hawk and its group in the
Arabian Sea to the south and the U.S. Mideast Task Force in the
Persian Gulf to the north, the United States has 10 warships on either
end of the strategic Straits of Hormuz. The Pentagon, as is its
custom, declined to confirm the exact whereabouts of the ships or what
they were up to. State Department officials cited concern about the
safety of ships passing through the Straits on the vital oil supply
run to the Gulf. Iran has conducted repeated attacks on shipping in
the Gulf and U.S. officials have said that Teheran has recently
equipped itself with powerful Chinese and Italian-made anti-ship
missiles, posing a greater threat.

AGENCY REPORTS 30 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL
    WASHINGTON, April 3 - 
The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S. government agency, said in its
daily operations report that there was a backlog of 30 ships waiting
to enter the canal early today. Over the next two days it expects --
4/03 4/04 Due: 36 28 Scheduled to Transit: 38 38 End-Day Backlog: 28
18 Average waiting time tomorrow -- Super Tankers Regular Vessels
North End: 19 hrs 8 hrs South End: 20 hrs 16 hrs

ST LAWRENCE SEAWAY TO OPEN ON SCHEDULE
    CHICAGO, March 12 - 
The St Lawrence Seaway and the Welland Canal linking Lakes Erie and
Ontario were expected to open as scheduled on March 31 and April 1,
respectively, a St Lawrence Seaway official said. The entire Seaway is
already free of ice due to the mild Winter and could be open for
navigation today, "but there doesn't seem to be enough demand from
shipping companies to warrant an early opening," the Canadian official
said. Repairs are continuing at a stepped up pace on the Welland Canal
and should be completed by the April 1 start-up date, she added.

SEARCH FOR BRITISH FERRY'S TOXIC CARGO CONTINUES
    ZEEBRUGGE, Belgium, March 10 - 
The search continued for a cargo of poisonous chemical substances
loaded on the Herald of Free Enterprise Ferry which capsized in
Zeebrugge harbour Friday. A total of 72 drums of various toxic
materials which were loaded on trucks in the ship's hold have been
recovered, but Belgian authorities warned it was essential to recover
a further 61 containers of a cyanide-based solution. A net has been
thrown over the gaping loading doors at the front of the ship to
prevent any more drums floating out. Salvage workers have moved cranes
into place alongside the wreck of the 7,951 ton roll-on, roll-off
ferry which now lies partly submerged on a sandbank outside the
harbour. The ferry's owner is <European Ferries Plc>, majority owned
by Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co Plc <PORL.L>. The
operation to right the vessel began yesterday after divers abandoned
their search for more bodies. Experts said it could take months to
refloat the ship and free the 80 bodies estimated to be trapped amid
debris. "The problem is that in these waters you can normally expect
one working day out of four," said Daan Kaakebeen of Dutch Salvage
experts Smit Tak International of Rotterdam. He estimated the job
itself would require 35 working days. Using reinforced cables, salvage
experts intend to raise the ship and set it down into a trench dug
alongside. Salvage work could pinpoint the exact cause of the loss of
the ferry, one of three sister vessels plying cross-Channel routes
from England to continental Europe. Suspicion at present is focused on
the ferry's main vehicle loading doors, set close to water level. In
London, Transport Secretary John Moore told parliament yesterday that
the ship keeled over after water gushed in through the bow doors. He
said a major government inquiry into the disaster will be held, all
similar ferries sailing from Britain will be inspected and owners will
be asked to fit lights to give warning if bow doors are not properly
closed. Experts carrying out tank and computer tests to determine how
the accident occurred will focus attention on the ship's doors, its
ballast system and crew procedures, he added. Two other investigations
into the disaster have also begun, one Belgian and one by the ferry's
owners.

TWO HUNDRED FEARED DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER
    ZEEBRUGGE, Belgium, March 7 - 
About 200 people are feared dead after a British cross-channel ferry
rolled on its side off the Belgian coast last night -- but almost 350
passengers were plucked to safety from the ice-cold sea. Belgian
Transport Minister Herman de Croo told reporters: "I fear the dead
could be in hundreds, perhaps 200. Given the state of the water, I
fear there is no hope." Townsend Thorensen, owners of the 7,951 tonne
Herald of Free Enterprise, said the ferry was carrying 543 people and
that 345 had been rescued. All but one were British.

UNION, SHIPPERS AGREE TO CUT N.Y. PORT COSTS
    NEW YORK, March 9 - 
The New York Shipping Association and International Longshoremen's
Association said they agreed to cut cargo assessments at the Port of
New York and New Jersey by more than 50 pct on some labor intensive
cargos. The charges on cargo handled by union workers will be reduced
to 2.85 dlrs a ton from 5.85 dlrs a ton, effective April one,
according to the agreement between the union and shippers. The
assessments are used to fund workers' benefits. "What were doing is
lowering the price to get more bulk cargo flowing through here," a
spokesman for the New York Shipping Association said. 

LIBERIAN ORE CARRIER IN COLLISION IN RIVER ELBE
    LONDON, March 25 - 
The Liberian motor bulk carrier, Trave Ore, 106,490 dwt, loaded with
ore, and the 2,852 dwt West German motor vessel Christa, collided late
last night on the River Elbe near buoy 129, Lloyds Shipping
Intelligence said. The Trave Ore proceeded by its own means to
Hamburg. The Christa was taken in tow with a damaged bow. The Liberian
vessel was concluding a trip from Seven Islands to Hamburg.

HUTCHISON UNIT BUYS CONTAINER CRANES FROM JAPAN
    HONG KONG, March 9 - 
Container port operator, <Hong Kong International Terminals Ltd>, a 89
pct held unit of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd <HWHH.HK>, said it has placed a
164 mln H.K. Dlr order for seven quayside container cranes of 800 tons
each with Japan's Mitsui Engineering and Shipbuilding Co Ltd <MSET.T>
for May 1988 to August 1989 delivery. Hong Kong International
Terminals operates 32 cranes.

KUWAIT MAY RE-REGISTER GULF TANKERS - NEWSPAPER
    NEW YORK, April 7 - 
Kuwait may re-register part of its tanker fleet with foreign flag
jurisdictions, including the U.S. And USSR, in an attempt to protect
them from Iranian missile attacks in the Gulf war zone, U.S. Officials
were quoted by the New York Times as saying. The transfers would allow
the country of registration to escort Kuwaiti-owned ships in the Gulf.
Kuwait had earlier declined an offer of U.S. Naval escorts as too
public an admission of its need for protection, they said. Kuwait is
also looking at flagging-out to European registries, the officials
said. Soviet flag tankers transporting Kuwaiti oil through the Gulf
may get Soviet escorts, the officials said. Kuwait had earlier
considered having both USSR and U.S. Escorts, but the U.S. Was
unwilling to give the Soviet Union a naval role in the region, the
newspaper quoted the officials as saying. Kuwait has backed Iraq in
the seven-year war against Iran and its ships have increasingly been
the target of Iranian attacks. The U.S. And Kuwait have been
negotiating for over a month on methods of protecting Kuwaiti ships.

TWO HUNDRED PEOPLE RESCUED FROM SINKING FERRY
    BRUSSELS, March 6 - 
About 200 people were rescued, some badly hurt, from a sinking cross
Channel ferry carrying approximately 540 people off the Belgian port
of Zeebrugge, a port control spokesman said. The spokesman, contacted
by telephone, said only one third of car ferry, the Herald of Free
Enterprise owned by the British company Townsend Thoresen, remained
above water. Divers have been sent down to try to rescue passengers
believed trapped in the ferry, which was on its way from Zeebrugge to
the English port of Dover and capsized just off the pier, he added

JAPAN SHIPBUILDERS SEEK CARTEL TO RESTRICT OUTPUT
    TOKYO, March 13 - 
Japanese shipbuilders have applied to the state's Fair Trade
Commission to form a cartel to restrict tonnage built to about half of
total capacity for the year starting April 1, officials of the
Shipbuilders Association of Japan said. Under the plan, 33 yards
capable of building ships of more than 10,000 gross tons will curtail
operations to three mln compensated gross registered tonnes (CGRT) a
year against capacity of about six mln CGRT. The Transport Ministry
estimates new orders at 3.3 mln CGRT in the year to March 1988 and 3.1
mln the following year. The industry has curtailed production due to
oversupply nearly every year since 1977/78, under cartel or Transport
Ministry guidelines. The latest guidelines call for a ceiling of four
mln CGRT in the year to March 31. The cartels, self-imposed and self-
regulated, are not legally binding, but industry finds it in its own
interest to stick to them. The slowdown in orders has been caused by
the strong yen and a protracted worldwide shipbuilding slump.

IRANIAN TANKER ATTACKED OVER WEEKEND - LLOYDS
    LONDON, March 23 - 
The Iranian steam tanker Avaj, 316,379 tonnes dw, was attacked and hit
at 1715 hours on March 21, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence service
reported. One person was killed. The tanker is owned by the National
Iranian Tanker Co.

AGENCY REPORTS 41 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL
    WASHINGTON, April 1 - 
The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S. government agency, said in its
daily operations report that there was a backlog of 41 ships waiting
to enter the canal early today. Over the next two days it expects --
4/01 4/02 Due: 34 34 Scheduled to Transit: 41 39 End-Day Backlog: 34
29 Average waiting time tomorrow -- Super Tankers Regular Vessels
North End: 25 hrs 11 hrs South End: 24 hrs 31 hrs

ST LAWRENCE SEAWAY OPENS SHIPPING SEASON
    MONTREAL, March 31 - 
The St Lawrence Seaway said the first ship of the season passed
through the St Lambert lock here this morning, officially opening the
2,300-mile-long waterway's 1987 shipping season. The seaway has said
it expects little increase in freight levels this year from last year
when it moved 37.6 mln tonnes of freight between Montreal and Lake
Ontario and 41.6 mln tonnes on the Welland Canal, which links Lake
Erie and Lake Ontario. The canal is scheduled to open tomorrow.
Officials expect the waterway to lose nine to ten mln Canadian dlrs
this year, about the same as the estimated deficit for fiscal 1986-87,
which ends today.

AUSTRALIA TUG CREWS BAR FOREIGN CONTAINER SHIPS
    SYDNEY, April 3 - 
Tug crews are preventing the movement of foreign-flag container
vessels in and out of the ports of Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle,
shipping sources said. They said maritime unions imposed bans on late
Wednesday for reasons that are obscure but seem to be linked with
claims for a pay rise above the 10 dlrs a week awarded by the
Arbitration Commission nationally to all workers recently. Only about
10 vessels are being delayed but the bans will affect container
terminal movements and will disrupt liner schedules, they said. The
dispute goes to the Commission on Monday, they said.

26 REPORTED DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER
    ZEEBRUGGE, Belgium, March 6 - 
At least 26 people died when a car ferry struck a pier as it left
Belgium for Britain, a nurse who took part in the rescue operation
said. Jan Van Moerbeke, a male nurse, said on coming off the Herald of
Free Enterprise that he had found six people on top of the vessel who
were dead. There were at least another 20 dead inside the boat, he
added. The governor of West Flanders province said 240 people were
still unaccounted for.

BIFFEX LOOKING TO JOIN NEW FUTURES EXCHANGE
    LONDON, March 27 - 
The Baltic International Freight Futures Exchange (BIFFEX) said it
agreed to pursue negotiations with other futures markets on the Baltic
Exchange with a view to merging into a new futures exchange. Legal
advisers have already been instructed to implement amalgamation of the
London Potato Futures Association, the Soya Bean Meal Futures Exchange
and the London Meat Futures Exchange. The London Grain Futures Market
has also discussed merging with the other markets. The aim of the
merger is to seek Recognised Investment Exchange status as required by
the 1986 Financial Services Act.

VERSATILE TO BUILD POLAR ICE BREAKER
    OTTAWA, March 2 - 
Versatile Corp's shipbuilding subsidiary has a letter of intent to
build a 320 mln dlr polar icebreaker for the Canadian coast guard,
Transport Minister John Crosbie said. In a Vancouver address, Crosbie
said Versatile Pacific Shipyards Inc was the low bidder to build the
Arctic Class 8 icebreaker, but the company must meet certain financial
and engineering conditions before the contract is awarded. The
government also announced it will provide up to 13 mln dlrs in loan
insurance to help Versatile prepare for the construction of the
vessel. said before the contract can be awarded Versatile "will be
required to offer assurances that the shipyard is technically and
financially capable of performing the work." Crosibie said Versatile's
bid was 100 mln dlrs lower than competing bidders and will generate
1,000 person years of direct employment. Work on the vessel, which
Crosbie said would be the most powerful icebreaker in the world, would
begin next year and completed in 1992. The government announced plans
to build the icebreaker last year following the controversial passage
of the U.S. Coast Guard's vessel, the Polar Sea, through the disputed
Northwest Passage. The U.S. government did not seek permission for the
journey, claiming the area was an international water way. The
government said the icebreaker was needed to back up the country's
claim of sovereignty in the Arctic.

BRAZIL SEAMEN CONTINUE STRIKE AFTER COURT DECISION
    RIO DE JANEIRO, March 8 - 
Hundreds of marines were on alert at 11 key Brazilian ports after
40,000 seamen decided to remain on indefinite strike, even after the
Higher Labour Court yesterday ruled it illegal, union leaders said.
The halt, the first national strike by seamen in 25 years, started on
February 27, and union leaders said they would not return to work
unless they got a 275 pct pay rise. Shipowners have offered a 100 per
cent raise, which the seamen rejected. "We have nothing to lose. If
they want to lay off the workers, fine, but we are determined to carry
on with our protest until the end," a union leader said. He said they
had decided in a meeting that if the marines take over the ships, the
seamen would abandon the vessels and let the marines handle the
situation by themselves. A spokesman for the Rio de Janeiro Port said
the order to send marines to take over the ports was given by Navy
Minister Henrique Saboya on grounds that ports are areas of national
security. But he said there were no incidents. The strike has cut
exports and imports and made an estimated 160 ships idle. Petrol
station owners in four states also continued their shutdown and there
were fears that the combination of the two stoppages could lead to a
serious fuel shortage.

TAIWAN SHIPBUILDER LOOKS FOR JAPANESE VENTURES
    TAIPEI, March 5 - 
Taiwan's state-owned China Shipbuilding Corp (CSBC) plans to seek
joint production agreements with Japan and further diversify into ship
repairing to try to trim its debts, chairman Louis Lo said. He told
Reuters in an interview that CSBC's first joint production venture, to
build two hulls for <Onomichi Dockyard Co Ltd>, was a success. Talks
on similar projects have been held with other Japanese firms,
including Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Co Ltd <MITH.T> and
Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co Ltd <JIMA.T>, he said. Lo said
CSBC delivered the hulls of two 2,200-TEU (twenty foot equivalent
unit) container ships this year to Onomichi, which would complete
production. "We expect the successful cooperation between us and
Onomichi will pave the way for further cooperation with other Japanese
shipbuilders in the future," Lo said. He said Japanese firms would
gain from the lower cost of shipbuilding in Taiwan while CSBC would
benefit from Japanese technology and marketing. This would pose a
challenge to competitors in Europe and South Korea. Lo said CSBC has
made losses of about 100 mln U.S. Dlrs since beginning operations in
1975. Its total debt now stands at about 500 mln dlrs, with annual
interest payments of nearly three mln dlrs. But he said the company,
which is Taiwan's largest shipbuilder, still has full government
support and had begun diversifying into ship repairing and manufacture
of pipes and other machinery. "We hope we can survive and prosper
through diversification," he said. Lo said income from ship repairing
almost doubled to 20 mln U.S. Dlrs in the year ended June 1986
compared with the previous financial year. He estimated income would
rise to more than 25 mln dlrs in 1986/87. CSBC has orders to build 10
ships totalling 460,000 dead weight tons (dwt) this financial year,
compared with 11 ships of 462,000 dwt in 1985/86, he said. Lo said the
prospects for shipbuilding were gloomy at least until 1991 due to
overtonnage, but the outlook for ship repairing was bright.

NORMAL WORK RESUMES AT NEW ZEALAND PORTS
    WELLINGTON, March 26 - 
Normal work has resumed at New Zealand ports as negotiations between
harbour board workers and employers continue. Wellington Harbour Board
Workers' Union secretary Ross Wilson told reporters talks late
yesterday ended with agreement to take unresolved issues before an
industrial conciliator. Wilson said the only remaining issue is the
length of the union award. The dispute originally was about wage rates
and the form of industry negotiations. Cook Strait ferry sailings
resumed after Marlborough Harbour Board workers returned to work this
morning, ending their industrial action a day early. The Waterside
Workers' Federation, which struck for most of last week and held more
than one mln tonnes of shipping in ports, meets on Monday and Tuesday
in conciliation with the Waterfront Employers' Association. Union
Secretary Sam Jennings said: "We've got two days of talks. If it's not
all cleaned up by then ... I don't know what will happen."

HIGH WINDS KEEP VESSELS TRAPPED IN BALTIC ICE
    HELSINKI, March 20 - 
Strong south-easterly winds were keeping many vessels trapped in the
ice off the Finnish and Swedish coasts in one of the worst icy periods
in the Baltic for many years, the Finnish Board of Navigation said. In
Finland and Sweden up to 50 vessels were reported to be stuck in the
ice, and even the largest of the assisting icebreakers were having
difficulties in breaking through to the stranded ships, coastguard
officials said. However, icy conditions in the southern Baltic at the
Soviet oil ports of Ventspils and Klaipeda had eased, they said.
Weather officials in neighbouring Sweden said the icy conditions in
the Baltic were the worst for 30 years, with ships fighting a losing
battle to keep moving. In the coastal stretches of the Gulf of
Bothnia, which divides Finland and Sweden, the ice is up to one metre
thick, with drifts and currents packing it into almost impenetrable
walls three metres high, Swedish coastguard officials said. Weather
forecasts say winds may ease during the weekend but a further drop in
temperature could bring shipping to a standstill, the officials said.

SHIPS HELD UP AT CALCUTTA
    BOMBAY, March 18 - 
Some 10 Indian ships have been held up at Calcutta port after four
days of industrial action by local seamen, a spokesman for the
shipowners' association INSA said. The dispute has prevented local
crewmen signing on and off, but has not affected foreign ships with
international crews docking at Calcutta, which exports tea and jute
and imports machinery, crude oil and petroleum products, the spokesman
said. Foreign ships may also suffer if dock workers join the action,
he said. The Shipping Corporation of India (SCI) has asked its ships
to avoid the port until the dispute is over, National Union of
Seafarers in India president Leo Barnes said.

TWO BRAZILIAN SHIPPING FIRMS SETTLE WITH STRIKERS
    SAO PAULO, March 12 - 
Two small shipping companies have reached a pay deal with striking
seamen, but union leaders said most of Brazil's 40,000 seamen were
still on strike. A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro said the seamen
had accepted a 120 pct pay offer from the companies, Globo and Flumar,
which have less than 200 employees each. The two-week strike comes as
Brazil faces a debt crisis and is delaying exports badly needed to
earn foreign exchange. Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto said the
government will not force a settlement of the strike, which was ruled
illegal last Friday.

N.Z. PORTS REOPEN, BUT FURTHER CLOSURES POSSIBLE
    WELLINGTON, March 17 - 
Harbour workers returned to work this morning after a strike in
support of pay claims closed New Zealand's 15 ports for 24 hours
yesterday. But the Harbour Workers Union told reporters the pay
dispute is not settled and the union's national executive will meet
here tomorrow to decide its next moves. "Obviously we will be
considering further industrial action," Union secretary Ross Wilson
said in a radio interview. The union rejects employers offers of a 7.5
pct pay rise over 15 months. It wants 7.0 pct over 12 months.

ROTTERDAM PORT UNION AND EMPLOYERS TO MEET
    ROTTERDAM, March 2 - 
Dutch port and transport union, FNV, agreed to an employers' request
to reconvene abandoned peace talks tonight to try to end strikes that
have disrupted Rotterdam's general cargo sector for the past six
weeks, a union spokesman said. Talks broke down Thursday when the
union walked out after employers tabled their final offer to end the
strikes which started January 19 in protest at planned redundancies of
800 from the sector's 4,000 workforce, starting with 350 this year.
The employers' invitation to restart the talks comes on the day a
deadline set by Minister of Social Affairs Louw de Graaf for a
resolution of the dispute expires. De Graaf said if the dispute had
not ended by today he would withdraw the 10 mln guilder annual labour
subsidy to the sector. No comment was immediately available from the
employers' organization.

BRAZIL SEAMEN'S STRIKE ENDS
    SAO PAULO, April 7 - 
A Brazilian seamen's strike, which began on February 27 and has been
tapering off for weeks, has now ended, a seamen's spokesman said. The
spokesman said the seamen had signed an agreement with the state-owned
Lloyd Brasileiro company on Saturday for a 120 pct salary rise. The
national strike had been tailing off since mid-March as seamen struck
individual accords with companies. At the height of the stoppage,
seamen said about 200 ships were strike-bound.

BOSPHORUS SHIPPING MOVES, ISTANBUL OFFICES CLOSE
    ISTANBUL, March 9 - 
Istanbul remained at a virtual standstill today under snow up to a
meter deep but shipping was moving through the narrow Bosphorus
waterway linking the Sea of Marmara and the Black Sea, officials said.
The authorities ordered government offices closed until Wednesday.
Many banks, businesses and schools stayed shut as workers struggled to
keep main roads and supply lines open in this city of 6.5 mln people.
The second blizzard to hit Istanbul in a week stopped yesterday
afternoon and the international airport reopened today after a two-day
closure. It was also shut earlier last week.

BIFFEX MEMBERS TO BALLOT ON MERGER
    LONDON, March 16 - 
Members of the Baltic International Freight Futures Exchange (BIFFEX)
are to be balloted at the end of this week on whether it will merge
with the London Commodity Exchange or come under a new umbrella of
Baltic futures exchanges, a BIFFEX official said. The final decision
will be left with the BIFFEX board, which will meet at the end of this
month, he said. Last week three exchanges currently trading on the
Baltic Exchange, the London Potato Futures Association, the GAFTA Soya
Bean Meal Futures Association and the London Meat Futures Exchange,
instructed legal advisers to implement a merger.

MCLEAN INDUSTRIES <MII> UNIT TRANSERS SERVICE
    CRANFORD, N.J., March 3 - 
McLean Industries Inc said its shipping subsidiary, United States
Lines Inc, reached an agreement in principle to transfer its South
American service to American Transport Lines Inc, a subsidiary of
<Crowley Maritime Corp>. Under the terms of the agreement, United
States Lines will lease five vessels to American Transport for 15
months with an option to extend the period up to 10 years, the company
said. In return, U.S. Lines will receive a fixed payment and a
percentage of revenues for at least three years and possibly as long
as American Transport utilizes its vessels and conducts trade in South
America, the company said. The companies will consummate the
transactions as soon as the required approvals are obtained, McLean
said.

FREIGHT, INSURANCE PROPOSED FOR CCC SALES - USDA
    WASHINGTON, March 20 - 
the U.S. Agriculture Department is proposing to permit coverage of
freight cost and marine and war risk insurance for sales of all
agricultural commodities sold on credit terms under the Commodity
Credit Corporation's, CCC, credit guarantee programs. The proposal
only applies to commodities that are sold by exporters on a cost and
freight, C and F, or cost, insurance and freight, CIF, basis, since
these costs would be included in the exporter's sale price to the
foreign buyer, it said. Under current programs, freight costs can be
covered only for export sales of U.S. breeding animals. It asked for
comments on the proposal by April 20.

WEST GERMAN SHIP SINKS OFF WEST AFRICA
    LAS PALMAS, March 23 - 
The West German-registered motor vessel Stefan E. Sank off the West
African coast early today and one of its eight crew members was
killed, a Spanish navy spokesman said. He said the captain of the
Singapore-registered tanker Nord Pacific reported in a radio message
that he had picked up the remaining seven crewmen of the 2,223 tonnes
dw Stefan E., Together with the body of the dead man.

BANGLADESH PORT WORKERS END STRIKE
    CHITTAGONG, March 12 - 
Cargo handling resumed at Bangladesh's Chittagong port today after
7,000 workers ended their three day walk-out triggered by a pay
dispute, port officials said. Loading and unloading of 14 ships
stranded by the strike started this morning and will be completed as
quickly as possible, they said. The strikers returned to work after an
agreement was reached last night between port authorities and the Port
Workers Association, they said without giving details.

CANADIAN SEAFARERS THREATEN STRIKE
    MONTREAL, March 2 - 
Canadian seafarers are almost certain to go on strike this spring in a
refusal to meet rollbacks in wages and benefits asked for by their
employers, Seafarers' International Union official Roman Gralewicz
said. "It's 99.9 percent--I guarantee you a strike," Gralewicz said in
an interview. The union represents about 2,300 workers on the Great
Lakes and Canada's East and West coasts. Contract talks broke off in
January and a conciliator has been appointed to try to help settle the
dispute. The current contract expires at the end of March. The
seafarers' employers are also asking for a reduction in crew levels, a
move which the union said would cost about 400 jobs.

CHINESE PORT UNDERUSED DESPITE CONGESTION NEARBY
    NINGBO, China, March 20 - 
The Chinese port of Ningbo is working well below capacity despite
being only 130 miles from Shanghai, which is seriously congested, a
port official said. Jiang Feng Xiang said the port -- the deepest in
China -- handled 17.95 mln tonnes of cargo last year, up from 10.44
mln in 1985, but well below its potential capacity of 32 mln tonnes.
Shanghai handled 100 mln tonnes of cargo in 1986. Jiang said Ningbo is
under-utilised because of its inadequate facilities, including a
single track rail line linking it to Hangzhou, where it joins the
national network. Ningbo handles crude oil exports and transhipments
of coal from north to south China and imports include fertiliser and
soda ash and iron ore from Brazil and Australia. The docks can handle
ships of up to 150,000 tonnes and oil tankers of up to 200,000 tonnes
can load and unload in the harbour. Most of Ningbo's port
infrastructure has been built since 1979, official publications show.
A container berth and two timber and three general cargo berths will
be added during the current 1986-90 five-year plan, Jiang said. "The
rail line to Hangzhou will be double tracked by 1995. By 2000, maybe,
we will overtake Shanghai," he added.

NEITHER SIDE OPTIMISTIC ON ROTTERDAM PORT ISSUES
    ROTTERDAM, March 3 - 
Employers and the port union, FNV, are to meet again this afternoon to
attempt a settlement of the six-week-old dispute in Rotterdam's
general cargo sector, but neither side is optimistic, spokesmen for
both sides told Reuters. Little progress was made in last night's
three hours of talks, with both sides largely reiterating their
positions. "There is still a very large gap between the employers and
the FNV, and I can't say that we expect to reach any agreement. But at
least we are still talking," a union spokesman said. Employers
organization chairman, Jacques Schoufour, accused the FNV of
intransigence in refusing to alter its stance at all over the past two
months. "The FNV is not serious about our discussions and I am really
not optimistic about it changing its point of view at all." "If we
find this afternoon that the FNV still refuses to accept the necessary
redundancies in the general cargo sector, then we will break off the
talks and the redundancies may begin later this month," Schoufour
said. The series of strikes, which employers say has cost them more
than seven mln guilders in lost import business in the past six weeks,
began on January 19 in protest at plans for 800 redundancies from the
sector's 4,000 workforce starting with 350 this year. Late last month
Social Affairs minister Louw de Graaf said unless the dispute was
settled by yesterday he would withdraw the sector's 10 mln guilder
annual labour subsidy. Both sides wrote to the minister yesterday
setting out their cases, but Schoufour said he did not expect to hear
from him before Wednesday at the earliest.

ST LAWRENCE SEAWAY OPENING STILL MARCH 31
    CHICAGO, March 26 - 
The St Lawrence Seaway between Lake Ontario and Montreal is still
scheduled to open for the shipping season on March 31, a Seaway
official said. The Great Lakes could have been open for traffic
earlier this month due to the mild Winter, but scheduled repairs to
the Welland Canal joining Lake Erie with Lake Ontario will keep that
section closed until the April 1 opening, she said. One lock system in
the four-lock Soo Canal joining Lake Superior with Huron was opened on
the morning of March 22, but only three commercial vessels have been
locked through so far, according to an U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
official. The Soo Canal is currently only open for daylight vessel
movement, with 24 hour movement allowed beginning March 29, she added.

STRIKING BRAZIL SEAMEN THREATEN MASS RESIGNATION
    SANTOS, Brazil, March 12 - 
Striking seamen said they would offer their collective resignation
rather than end their 13-day-old national strike on management's
terms. The seamen said they were spurred to their decision after
marines occupied the ship Docemarte in Santos harbour Tuesday night.
They said seamen on the vessel were being forced to work under duress.
President Jose Sarney's government despatched troops to Brazil's ports
and oil installations on Tuesday. Seamen in Santos, Brazil's main
port, are in defiant mood. One of their leaders, Orlando dos Santos,
told Reuters that most of the 1,100 seamen in the port offered their
resignations on Wednesday. The national strike headquarters in Rio de
Janeiro said seamen were offering to resign in all the country's main
ports. The strike by 40,000 seamen comes as Brazil faces a serious
debt crisis brought on by a sharp deterioration in its trade balance.
The country needs all the foreign exchange it can get, and shipowners
have been quick to denounce seamen for the harm the strike is doing to
exports. An advertisement placed in the newspapers by the Shipowners
Association read, "The seamen's strike is illegal, irrational and
unpatriotic." The seamen respond that they cannot live on their
present salaries. According to officical pay lists available in the
union's office, the basic pay for ordinary seamen is 1,977 cruzados a
month, while various allowances can bring their total pay up to 4,000
cruzados a month. At the other end of the scale, captains earn 7,993
cruzados a month basic pay, which is brought up to 15,229 cruzados
with allowances. "Brazil's seamen are the second worst paid in the
world, after Ghana's," dos Santos said. He said the seamen had not
received a pay increase since February 1986, and prices have doubled
since then with the collapse of the government's Cruzado Plan price
freeze. Talks in Rio de Janeiro Wednesday involving Labour Minister
Almir Pazzionotto, seamen and employers failed to resolve the dispute.
The seamen are demanding pay raises of about 200 pct but have been
offered less than half that.

DUTCH PORT EMPLOYERS RESUME LAY-OFF PLANS
    ROTTERDAM, March 17 - 
Employers in Rotterdam's troubled general cargo sector have decided to
restart stalled redundancy procedures within a week, employers'
organisation labour relations manager Gerard Zeebregts told Reuters.
Port and transport union spokesman Bert Duim said the employers'
decision would not lead to the immediate resumption of eight weeks of
strikes in the sector. The strike action was called off on Friday
after an interim court injunction against the employers' plans for 350
redundancies this year. A court in Amsterdam ruled last week the
employers had made an error in the complicated procedure for obtaining
permission for the redundancies and therefore could not proceed until
a final ruling on May 7. Zeebregts said the initiation of new
procedure might well take up to two months, but the employers were not
prepared simply to sit and wait for the May 7 court ruling with the
chance they would have to start all over again in any case. "We cannot
afford not to continue with our plans. The strikes have already cost a
lot of money and damaged business, and further delays would do even
more damage," Zeebregts said. The campaign of lightning strikes in the
port's general cargo sector began on January 19 in protest at
employers' plans for 800 redundancies from the sector's 4,000 strong
workforce by 1990, starting with 350 this year.

